This is Jocco podcast number 73.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco Willick.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
It has been quite a few episodes since we did some Q&A.
You'll answer some questions from the interwebs.
We had a series of guests, hate a couple books, and just kind of slid a little bit on Q&A.
So, Q&A.
Yeah.
Let's rock.
Let's question number one.
Question number one.
Yeah.
Boom.
Question number one.
Jocco.
Do you have to make a conscious effort not to overreact the situations, or is it natural
slash ingrained now?
I would say at this point, it's fairly ingrained, and I don't overreact to a lot of stuff anymore.
In fact, some of them, I just don't react to stuff.
Yeah.
The honest with you, things are going on.
I'll just be sort of, okay, yep, not the head.
Listen to what's happening, listen to the people freaking out, and I don't overreact to a lot
of stuff.
That's, I think it's pretty ingrained right now.
And I would say that in order to get there, you know, in order to try and move in that direction,
because that is the best way to be.
Again, I'm not saying to be a robot.
I'm not saying you should have no emotions, and you should never show any.
I'm not saying that.
But you shouldn't, you should have some control over those emotions, especially from a
leadership perspective, right?
That's what I'm talking about.
You're from a leadership perspective.
So, one of the things that you can do is when you, when chaos starts to hit, you know,
make sure that, what does this look like from the outside?
What do I look like from the outside?
When somebody says something to you that's traumatic or is going to cause a disturbance,
or it's going to cause problems, immediately think you're something, okay, what am I going
to look like from the outside right now?
What am I going to look like to them if they're recording this?
Oh, yeah.
In your head, like they're recording this, and we're going to go sit down and watch it later
when they first came out with in the SEAL teams, and we started recording people as they
enter rooms, and as we did, primarily close quarters combat scenarios, so you've got guys
and tight quarters, and they're making very quick decisions.
And you start singing what you look like.
And it makes you better.
You know, that's why that's one of the reasons why you do it.
The same thing with you, Jitu, you've watched the tape or MMA, you watched the tape of what
someone's doing, if a ball, they do that in every sport, right?
They watch the tape, see what you look like, see what mistakes you made.
So when someone hits you with something, that's disturbing or is going to cause problems,
picture that you're being recorded, and you're going to have to watch the play by play
later with your team and look at what, how much you lost your temper, how much you've
got frazzled, and what a disaster you were.
So that's what I would picture, or as you start to move in the direction of, hey, I'm not
going to get frazzled by problems. I'm just going to listen. I'm going to assess, I'm going
to make decisions, and move forward.
Yeah.
Pretty easy.
Pretty simple.
Thank you.
That play when they say, play, let's go to the video tape.
You know, let's play and we're in football, man, in meetings, they, you know, big screen,
projector, get echo.
The little laser pointer.
Yes, exactly.
So when men, when you mess up, and everyone's looking, what are you doing here?
They pause it, and it shows you, like, mid mess up, you know, man, it's like, they
put you on the stage and just throw tomatoes at you.
That's what it feels like.
Yeah.
That's how you get better though.
Yeah, a great, totally agree.
And in a way, I told you I used to do this where it had to do with more like getting
mad, like if I find myself getting mad, you know, something overreaction kind of where
I'd really shame myself, kind of like, man, that's embarrassing.
You got mad, kind of thing.
So it would be on my mind the whole time where any time I fell myself getting mad, it'd
be on my mind.
Like, oh, look at me.
I'm being one of those guys.
So it's kind of the same thing, but it's in your own head kind of thing.
Yeah, and it's really boils down to something I talk about all the time, detachment.
Yeah.
That's what I'm talking about.
Being able to picture yourself.
What do I look like right now?
Am I appearing to be a panic, stricken, loser?
Yes.
I come cool, collected, leader that's going to step up, make a good decision, assess the
situation and move forward.
Yeah.
Let's look like that guy.
The winner, the leader.
What about if you're like, what about if you're tired, like you didn't get it a
lot of sleep for a few years right now?
Yeah, no factor.
No, okay, no.
No, no.
You know, people get irritable.
People get irritable.
Yeah, get tired.
Which I actually find amusing.
Yeah.
But that's a real thing.
Yeah, it is a real thing.
So you know what that means, you need to feed you.
If you're one of those people, that's going to be in that mode.
You need to be aware of that and you need to focus even more on not overreacting, and
acting like a baby because you're tired.
Like a big yeah, exactly.
That's a good way of like a baby.
Yeah, like a baby.
Yeah.
What does a baby do you start crying?
Yes.
And that's actually kind of the point there where you know, I used to be one of the before
head kids, you know, how when the kid is acting up, you know, your friends kid is acting
up and then you're like, oh, I want to write a kid.
But the parent of the kid always is like, oh, he's just tired or she's just tired.
Yeah.
And you know, like you thought it was a lie.
Why?
She just started.
No, your kid is a brat.
That's what you kind of think, you know, your kid's not tired.
That's a brat.
Always judging.
You know, I think most people without kid that's half.
And after a while, especially when you have kids, you start to realize, oh, I'm in.
There's a difference in kids behavior.
Yeah.
Maybe fundamental because this is the one year we're talking about, you know, it's not like
he learned to start crying when he's tired.
It's like when you're tired, you're just less patient.
Even as an adult, you've been tired and you're like waiting for something.
When you're tired and you're waiting for something and it's not coming as quick
as you expected.
Yeah.
What you're used to?
Here's the problem that I run with, with waiting or being held up or when I, this is how I
can realize that's a control freak, a kind of is going to the airport because if you're
running late in the airport, you can't control TSA.
Yeah.
They're going to take.
And of course, if I'm on time for my flight, waiting in the TSA line for five minutes
is not a big deal at all.
If I'm late for my flight, five minutes is an eternity and their pathetic and their
losers and their slow.
And it's all on me.
It's all on me because I went to the airport late.
So I'm not, I get to the airport early because I don't like to have the feeling of things
I can't control.
So I'm going to do the best to mitigate it.
That's one of those situations.
If you get all tired and then you get all angry and you start crying like a baby, then
guess what?
Get more sleep and or and or because sometimes you don't have the choice and you get less
sleep.
So put yourself in check and try and get control those emotions instead of acting like a baby.
Yeah.
I put in in the where you could book one of the lines is Mark.
He's all bummed out and the line was he started crying like a baby.
And and and the the editors were like, you know, you might not want to say that.
You know what kind of gives a bad thing about crying.
Crying is bad and crying is bad and crying is baby is.
And I said, no, actually you're crying like a baby and baby is cry and you know, when
you're a 10 year old kid, you shouldn't be crying like a baby.
And it's him saying about himself, you know, so they were a little sensitive about that
one, but once I kind of debriefed him on it, we were good.
The line remained Mark in his own words broke down start crying like a baby.
Right.
So yeah, because crying like a baby technically is not the same thing is just normal crying
for stuff.
Yeah, sure.
Like you're trying like a because why they say crying like a baby really is probably
because baby's cry for literally everything, right?
Anything that they're not happy about the baby.
Because he doesn't know how to talk.
So if you're crying like a baby, you're crying for every little thing.
There you go.
But if you're just crying over, you know, whole life I go or whatever the movie is, you're
watching, then that's what we're different, you know what I'm saying?
The line remained.
That's the good thing.
That's the key right there.
Next question.
Any advice for a second lieutenant, one month into IOC and a couple of months from
this, standing in front of a PLT, plus two of Marines for the first time.
You know what, I almost did answer this one because I answered it all the time for every
different person that's going into a leadership position.
But I'm going to answer one more time just to make sure I'm going to make it brief.
I'm going to make it quick.
But if you're going into a new leadership position, whether you're going to be in charge
of a Marine Corps, Platoon or an Army Platoon or a Seal Platoon or a Division at a
company or a sports team, whatever you're going to be in charge, the principles are the
same, right?
We're going to be humble.
Number one, we're going to listen.
We're not going to act like we know everything because we don't because we're new.
There's going to be a gunny sergeant in that platoon that actually does know a lot of stuff.
You don't.
You don't go in there asking like you do.
You're going to take suggestions.
You're going to ask for advice.
You're going to heed the advice when it comes your way.
And now you're going to work harder than everybody else that goes well.
It's going to outwork everybody.
They're going to respect that.
And then when the time comes to be decisive and you've taken on board the various inputs,
you're going to be decisive.
Once you've been decisive, that doesn't mean that you're going to hold on and burn in
with that idea, that decision that you made, you can change your mind sometimes.
That's the one thing that always freaked me out about politicians when the politicians
would change their mind and everyone say, oh, they're a flip flopper.
They change their mind.
You know, more information comes to light and your attitude can evolve.
You know, your opinion can evolve.
That's not a horrible thing to me.
Now, if you have somebody that's flip flopping their fundamental principles, that can
obviously, and if the reason for them doing that isn't for new information, it's because
they want this person vote for me or that group of people to vote for me.
Well, then that's obviously a different thing.
But for you to analyze your decision and then let it mature and change, that's not that
big of a deal.
And people will get paranoid that your troops won't respect that.
I said, we're going to come in for the West.
So we're just going, I'm not going to change my mind because I'll look weak.
No, no, no, no.
You actually look weak by maintaining a stupid opinion or maintaining course.
That's a bad, the course or bad decision.
So don't do that.
Just be humble.
Be decisive when you have to be, or when you when you need to be.
And then, so remember, there's been all these other leaders throughout history.
Thousands and thousands of years that have stepped up and taken charge of stuff and gone
after it.
So you're going to make some mistakes.
So is everybody that people that are that you're working for made mistakes, too.
That gun resurgent made mistakes.
You know, he wasn't perfect.
So you're going to make mistakes.
No, not that big of a deal.
You make a mistake.
What do you do?
Learn from it, move forward.
So that's what you do with the new leadership position and good luck man.
The Petune Commander, Petune Commander, Petune Commander, that's what you want to be.
And that's what you got.
Go and get it.
Semper Fi and thanks for your service.
Yeah, that's, I think that's one, my opinion, is that this question and this answer that
you just gave that I don't think that gets old because that's all hard on it.
And no one feels comfortable.
Yeah, actually, let me rephrase that.
The people that feel comfortable already getting their take charge, they're generally
the least ready and are going to have the worst performance because their, their ego's big
and they believe that they're going to crush it.
This guy, this second lieutenant, he is humble.
He's aware.
He's like, hey man, what can I do?
How can I be ready for this?
That's, that's the perfect place to be at.
Yeah, like a healthy amount of doubt.
Yeah, the late, late told that story a couple times where when he was the executive officer
of the sealed team or the ops officer to seal team, if he called out and I was running training,
so his seal team was going through training and he would call, you know, the Petune Commander,
the troop commander and he's, you know, how's everything going out there?
And if he's, if they answered, we're crushing it.
Right, right.
Late would say, uh, oh, we got issues because, because, factually, he, you know, he knew,
you know, he knew I was running training, the wasn't anyone's going to crush the training
early running.
And so if their answer wasn't, you know, hey, the training is really hard and we're doing
our best.
We're learning a lot.
Those guys, he's okay.
They're good to go and I'll go see him, you know, in a week or so.
If they said they were crushing it, he said, yeah, I'm going to come out and see you
guys tomorrow.
And then when they get out there, he'd say what's going on.
I'd say, that's not good.
So yeah, that attitude of we're crushing it is generally an indicator of, you know,
you're probably not doing the best job.
Yeah.
So stay humble.
That's the indicator of how they're going to move forward to, you know, like
their attitude and work out.
I'm doing great.
Yeah, no.
You're not doing great.
None of us are.
At a minimum, we can do better.
Right.
So the minute you say, I'm doing great, go backwards.
Next question.
How long did it take you to get promoted to a blue belt?
And how often were you training during that time?
So real simple question.
It took me, I think about nine or 10 months to get my blue belt sheet.
And when I was at that time, I, I was at Sulteen one.
I was in the training department.
And I had a lot of opportunity to train.
At that time, Clinton years, not a lot of money.
To train in the sealed teams.
So less trips, shorter trips, less travel.
So we were staying around a little bit more.
No war going on on top of all that.
So we were, we were home a little bit more.
And so I trained all the time.
I would go to lunch at lunch.
I would zip over to Fabio Santos.
OK.
And train the lunch time class.
And then I'd zip back and do work.
And then we'd get done.
I'd go back.
And I would do the beginner class.
And then I would do the advanced class.
And then I would roll a dean and hegs and James Nielsen and Craig and the rest of the
guys that were there at Fabio at the time.
And Fabio used to kick dean and I off the mat at like nine o'clock at night.
Yeah, take it to you long.
Yeah, and he'd say, why don't you guys get a life?
Why are you doing?
And we'd say we're just training the juit to do.
You say we got a life.
It's right here.
I'll leave you this.
This is it.
And so it was mostly at Fabio's like, you know, you said you'd like train with your,
you know, your guys, you weren't trained to whatever was there that going on?
Yeah, yeah, anybody that wanted to roll with me, I had the same policy that I have
right now.
You want to roll?
Yeah.
Let's roll.
Well, I have my gear.
It's in my bag right now.
If you want to train, we'll train.
Oh, it's, you know, Thursday afternoon and it's two o'clock and we don't have any work to
do and you want to train cool.
We'll train.
So yeah, I was doing that all the time.
And the thing is once I got blue belt, because I think I got blue belt pretty quickly.
And but I was a blue belt for a long time because I write as I was probably getting
close to getting my purple belt.
I left California and I went to Virginia Beach.
Once I got to Virginia Beach stepped into a new dojo with Gustavo Machado.
And you know, started training with Gustavo and I'm just a blue belt, right?
And so he's got to know, learn me figure out what my personality is like.
See what my potential is as a person.
And I trained really hard there.
But I was also gone a lot traveling and that's why I was traveling a lot on the road.
And I would train with guys on the road and I went on deployment, train with guys on the
deployment and then it would come back in a town.
And so I didn't get consistent enough with him eyes with him where he said, hey, this
guy's ready for his purple belt.
So by the time I might have been close to him thinking, okay, you know what?
And he started looking to him for purple belt went back to San Diego.
Got back to San Diego.
And now I check back into Fabios.
Well, it's been two years, bro.
You need to prove yourself again.
So it was almost like I was at the bottom of the pecking order in terms of time and rain,
even though I'd been a blue belt for a long time.
So I ended up being a blue belt for a long time.
I want to say it was a blue belt for maybe like five years.
Yeah, that's.
And I was a good blue belt.
Don't get me wrong.
Sure, of course it were.
And but you know, it was a long time.
When you jump around from school to school and the instructor doesn't know you well enough,
it doesn't see you on a regular basis and can't assess your improvement because that's
the thing with you, Jitsu.
In my opinion, for your, you don't get your belt.
There's not a level playing field for every person.
So in other words, it's not, hey, these are the skills required for blue belt and now you
get your blue belt.
And then you learn these other, you know, these other 127 other moves and now you get your
purple belt.
Now there's three hundred and ten moves to get your, it's not like that at all.
Yeah.
In fact, it's also not, hey, how do you as a blue belt do against this other group
of blue belts?
What it is, and I know this sounds a little bit cliche, but it's, it's really how good
or you against you, right?
Because if somebody, you know, you let's say you get somebody that starts, you Jitsu
when they're older, you know, maybe they're 55 years old.
They're going to go and they train until they're 62 or they're training and training and
training.
Here's skill level.
They're getting injured.
They're having issues.
They got to work.
They got to do a bunch of things and they can't, they're hobbyists, right?
They're not focused and they can only train so much.
They learn the moves.
They get better 10 years go by.
There's a chance that they're going to be a black belt based on the fact that, hey,
as a 55 year old person that came in here and started training and it moves that you've
learned and how you've applied them according to your athletic ability and your physical
capability at the time.
Hey, it's been 10 years, which is a pretty rough number for like, you know, forgetting
your black belt.
So that's acceptable.
But you might get a kid that's a really good athlete that in two years can destroy
that guy and he's not getting his black belt because you're saying, what is your potential?
How good can you be as a black belt?
That's the question.
So really, it's almost a compliment.
The longer it takes you to get your belts, that means, in my opinion, that means the better
you're going to, that means the better that you're instructor thinks you're going to be.
Yeah.
That's my, that's my thought.
And not everyone does it like that.
You know, some people think, oh, if this purple belt can be that purple belt, you know,
this purple belt's better.
Yeah.
And if this purple belt can be the brown belt, then I need to give him his brown belt.
Not too many think people think that way.
You know, who thinks that way?
The purple belt.
I can beat the brown belt.
I should be a brown belt.
No.
No wrong.
Yeah.
So true.
And there's so many, there's so many of those little things.
Like the reason an instructor might be influenced to give someone, I mean, typically, they're
not going to give someone a belt based solely on the fact that he taps out that, you know,
brown belt.
So, but it is influenced by that.
It is.
Oh, there's all these weird things.
There's stuff like, sometimes I'm watching like a two blue belts and they'll see
that I'm watching and it turns into a death mask.
There's no monster tab.
Actually, you know what?
That's just saw a video of a guy with a camera.
I think you put it on.
I saw that live.
What kind of intro does elbow you think?
Because look like it's elbow.
Yeah, maybe like crap.
Yeah, didn't tap to the camera.
The camera is a beast, man.
The camera is a beast.
You know, you can not tap to a footlock.
You can not tap to.
You can even not tap to a heel hook.
You look and go really sideways.
But you don't tap to a camera.
You're probably going to have some issues.
Yeah.
I'm not able to watch.
Like I've seen guys like get their, you know, their knee and stuff, you know, heel
hook and it's like, oh, I'll take that.
Yeah, but man, like, like, you know, when you see the guys, arm just bent that way.
Man, man, and I did it post that video.
Someone else posted it.
I would never post videos like that.
In fact, I don't like to watch that.
I saw live.
Is that what I did to your shoulder recording to the success rate?
Almost separated your shoulder separated.
It did not people do that.
I know it sounded nice and dramatic.
But it didn't happen.
Yeah, I don't think you've ever almost said that.
It's not even a shoulder.
No.
Yeah, but as far as, as far as people getting, uh, instruction is getting influenced on
a wide of give guys belts or a higher belt.
Like some instructions, for example, they'll be influenced now.
But to give a guy higher belt because I want to have more black belts underneath, you
know, we have a team of black belts.
And typically that'll have a lot to do with sales, you know, like where I can be like,
hey, I have, you know, a team of, you know, and I've heard the sales pitch, you know,
where it's like, hey, we have seven, seven black belts on the mat, three world champ.
You know, that's good.
That's good.
So people might be influenced by that.
And then they'll be like, okay, maybe I'll give these two guys their belt.
So now we have four black belts or whatever.
There's that.
And then they're, if that's the reason, you know, I mean, it is good to have 10
black belts in your association.
Yeah, because that is good to do.
Yeah, for sure.
And but then there's the opposite too.
Or guys will be like, if they're in this typically happens if they're competing.
So if a coach is like, A, I got these five brown belts there.
Obviously on the level of black belt knowledge performance, all this stuff.
But when they go in the tournament in the brown belt, they're killing.
We got gold medals, gold team medals every time.
So though then there's that sandwich bag in.
Centenne bag in the black.
Right.
So there's, yeah, there's all those things.
In regards to the belt, I said this before.
I'm gonna say it again.
The belt really doesn't have to do with how good you think you are or how good even
you know you are.
If you're like, hey, I'm tapping a, you know, I'm a white belt.
For example, I'm white belt and I'm hanging with the purple belts.
I'm tapping blue belts and brown belts are getting.
I'm giving them a hard time.
So I should be a blue belt.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter at all.
And you know, it sounds like an exaggeration.
It doesn't matter who's a little bit here.
I think no, it doesn't.
Your skill is evaluated by your instructor.
That's the reason why you can be at a certain level.
Leave.
Come back and still not because of your instructor.
You can be going dominating everywhere.
Then instructor has to evaluate.
Yeah, that's exactly what happened with me.
And it wasn't a negative thing.
It was like, hey, you've been gone for two years.
We're gonna see where you're at, Draco.
Yeah.
And it's not just one day thing.
We're back in here and get your purple belt.
Yeah.
Just because you've been training for two straight years.
And you know what's interesting, too, is this, I obviously this applies to people
in the business world.
People trying to get promoted.
And the more you're thinking, hey, I'm better at this job than this guy.
I should get, there's something else going on.
There's something you look at and the more frustrated you get about not getting that
promotion, not getting taken care of, not getting noticed.
Just do your job work hard.
You know, don't worry about the promotion and the promotion promotion is going to
come in most cases.
Yeah.
So I would even frame it where I would say in all cases, there are exceptions like
everything else, but in all cases, that is the situation.
Yeah.
And think about this, too, when you in regards to like your belt, right?
You just two belt.
If I'm a white belt, Draco, you're my instructor.
And I'm like, hey, I'm winning all these tournaments.
All of them go not a point score all by submission.
I'm tapping up blue belts and purple belts sometimes, hey, Jocko, give me my blue belt.
All right.
I can't do that.
You, it's not up to me.
Even if I beg you, I go on the internet, I post this petition.
It's not up to me.
See, this is the thing.
You know, when you hear in martial arts, like old traditional martial arts, like you
will learn humility and you will learn discipline.
And they would teach it, you know, by teaching it, by talking about it.
In the digital, it's real.
Yeah.
And when you flare up and say, where's my belt?
That's you not being humble.
That's you not, you know, just saying, hey, I need to work harder.
I need to keep getting after it.
And so you're learning that lesson there.
Yeah.
That's part of the lesson.
That's the way it should be.
You know, and again, I've mentioned this before in the podcast, just because someone
is a G.J. two person, just because they're a black belt, doesn't mean they have the
same.
It doesn't mean they have like the best morals and values.
It doesn't mean that at all.
There could be people selling belts.
There's people that sell belts.
Oh, you, you go to take 10 privates with me $1000 each and then then you'll, that's
how you get the black belt.
Okay, cool.
No, not cool.
So there's a bunch of things like that too.
You know, I want you to go open a pilot school for me somewhere.
So I'm going to give you your black belt.
You know, you're not that good.
So that way you can, you can give me my, you know, 12% of your annual earnings.
You know, those things like that happen.
There's, you know, even worse things that happen, but the bottom line is an appearer,
G.J. two cents.
You should be working hard in getting promoted as it comes from your instructor.
Yeah.
So essentially the promote you.
Is this sort of like an indirect way of you talking to me about your belt?
No, not at all.
Actually, actually, if it does apply to me, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
It will less than anyone cares or doesn't care.
Of course.
I think everyone cares in one way or another.
But I'd say the approach, it more has to do with the approach.
Like just like I said, focus on getting better, focus on the learning.
That's it.
The belt is just a symptom of your learning.
It's an eventuality essentially.
Same thing or back to the fact that it doesn't have anything to do with the person, only
the instructor on the flip side, what I said about, you know, if I think I'm, I think I'm a
blue belt and I'm not getting my blue belt.
What's up?
It's not up to me.
It's something structure.
No matter what.
Same thing is if you, you're like, hey, a promotion time.
Hey, echo, here's your blue belt and I'm like, I'm not ready for this blue belt.
I suck.
I can't even do this.
I can't give the belt back.
I can't like take it off and then put it, you know, I mean, I'm sure there's some kind
of excitement.
There's that thing that happened long time ago with them with Anton.
That wasn't a lot of time.
I was like a year ago.
Yeah, that's long time ago.
Okay.
But nonetheless, you know, I can't give it back to you when you get a motor.
You're ready for it.
Yeah.
Put your belt on and start starting after your hard path.
Because if nothing do with your opinion, that's the point there.
So yeah, it's your instrument.
And they keep training.
Yeah.
Because sometimes people get their belts and they stop training.
Yeah, that's an integral.
Here's the thing, all admit there was a point in my life where I was like concerned
about that.
I'm like, oh, I'm, you know, I'm better than this guy.
I'm not going to say when which belt it was not recently my new.
But that's three weeks ago.
I guess I shouldn't sit.
But man, I remember and when I think about that time man, how was it learning that much
at all?
I was just focusing on like, whoa, good.
You do.
So like, you know, your game kind is closed off.
You don't learn much.
You're concerned about, you know, all this stuff.
And it's just happening.
You're not taking your risks.
Not learning.
Yeah, exactly.
And it just messes up your whole due to experience because you have that, you have that
outlet added element of stress.
It's not good.
Don't do that.
So don't even ask about belts.
I think that's a good, that's a great.
That isn't, that is a great policy.
Yeah.
That's the best policy for those.
Do no and ask them to train hard and you'll get what's coming to you eventually.
But sometimes people will ask you, hey, when are you going to get your blue belt or, you
know, you know, people will ask you that whenever I don't know.
Yeah, whatever.
My Instagram's going to ask me when I'm going to get the red and black belt.
I'll just get you know what else to be like.
Talk to the way they're adding the coral belt.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Good.
Next question.
What's the best approach to managing people that outperform you?
Yeah, I think this is a simple question as well.
You do in this situation as you give them all the support you can and let them run.
I'm happy if someone's outperform me.
That's great.
You know what else I'll do?
Trying to learn from them.
Let's see what they're doing.
Trying spread the word.
If I'm going to leadership position and someone's doing outperforming everyone.
Great.
How can we take that?
How can we teach everyone else?
How can I give them supports they can run even faster?
This is no factor to me.
I love it.
You should be surrounding.
The more people you can bring on your team, that how perform you, the better you're
going to do.
True.
Check.
Easy one.
Next question.
Yeah, a lot of times it's hard though.
You know, and I know you're going to say.
Such an ego.
Urgh.
Oh, do I'm not going to say it that voice?
Is it not true?
We know it's your ego.
It's 100% ego.
When you can't support somebody that's doing better than you.
Why else would you not support them?
They're helping the team win.
They're helping everyone do better.
Why would you not support them?
Because your ego, because you're like, at herats.
Yeah.
I want to be the guy.
And you know what you look like then, you look like a jealous baby little baby word of
the day baby.
You look a little jealous little baby.
Because you're trying to hold them back and everyone can see it and everyone can tell.
It just don't be that person.
Yeah, right.
That's a good point right there.
Everyone can tell.
Everyone can tell what's going on.
It's one of those dichotomies is that people can be so ignorant to things and yet so
perceptive to things.
And the things like that, they're so perceptive to echo doesn't like to see Joko out
shine him.
That's why he's trying to hold them back.
Oh, he's not sending him on that trip.
We're just going to win that deal.
Oh, he's going to go instead.
Hey, I won the deal guys.
Yeah, I'm great.
No, wrong.
And even down to the small little things like, you know, hey, you know, I don't know.
We'll say, John is a guy's your subordinate.
You're jealous of him because he's dope.
When someone gives John a compliment about how good he did, just a little looking on your
face.
So obvious.
You don't know.
And you know how you say some people or people are so like ignorant of some things
and so perceptive, they're ignorant about the stuff when it plays to them.
Yeah.
Somebody else is like, yeah, you know what I'm going to point those out all day.
Good point.
Like when people in the I got this Sam Harris, he point he had this example where
name dropping when you're, you know, when you do some name dropping, not everyone, but
most people, it's like it's easier to recognize the one other people name dropping when
they do them.
So, you know, so funny.
So chill.
And there's, if I name drop, I immediately feel like a flush of just disgust.
Yeah, I know.
God, I just did that.
That's so bad.
Yeah, yeah, it's true.
So bad.
But it's hard to kind of know.
Oh, you know, you know, speaking of how it was just texting back and forth with Tim
Ferris and Joe Rogan the other day.
That's a, you know, that's an excessive name drop when you say the first end of
last video.
That's it.
You know, and then, well, I don't know, what's worse, like, Hey, I was just texting
I just got a text from Tim.
You know what?
Yeah, you're right.
Tim, who Tim Ferris, what?
Joe Rogan, my boy.
Yeah, we were kicking it out.
Cool.
Yeah, that's like, like, pseudo advanced name dropping where you say the first name
like that.
But like, like amateur name dropping is first and last name.
Okay.
So I was actually black belt name dropping.
Yeah.
Just first name, first name base.
Actually, more like one straight white belt, you know, it's just a little bit more
expensive.
Still name dropping.
What's the height?
Is there a way to appropriately name drop somehow?
How do you do that?
I'm sure they're not say their name.
I was talking to someone the other day.
So this is a similar situation.
I was talking to, you know, met some people the other day and, and the girl says,
you know, oh, yeah, and we're talking about the East Coast and she's, oh, yeah, I
went to college and Cambridge and it was, you know, it's a good place.
And I was thinking myself, I didn't, you know, oh, where'd you go to school?
No, we'll leave it at that.
But that was sort of a high level.
Yeah.
I lived in Cambridge.
That's why I went to college.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm going for college to talk about going on there, right?
Right?
So, you know, was that a high level?
Was it?
Was that just an honest conversation?
Yeah.
You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know,
you know, right?
She didn't essentially want a name drop for the reason that people normally name
drop.
But here's, I think there is a way to like effectively and like legitimately if for like
a better name drop.
And that's like if you, if you, because name dropping typically, it's like, you know,
it's almost like a week attempt at breezy and over, you know,
who are I'm texting with Joe Rogan, you know, or they'll like say their little credentials.
You know, but I think if you say, you know, how's texting with my friend and it was actually
Joe Rogan, you know, and you make it like a point to emphasize like that, that, that, that,
this wasn't just anyone.
It was Joe Rogan.
You're actually excited about it.
Yes, you know, exactly.
So that, I think that's an effective way because it kind of kind of can maintain your humility
there.
We were like, you know, just texting with my boy Joe Rogan, whatever kind of thing.
More like I'm just, no, just deal.
No big deal.
Let's be.
Yeah, in me, Tiva.
Anyway, go.
We, I digress.
There.
All right.
Next question.
What would be a good approach to effectively.
What would be a good approach to effectively leading a team where instead of taking ownership
of their responsibilities and working towards team goals, each team member is just trying
to be the boss.
Okay.
So a couple things here.
You want to let them be the boss of their tasks, right?
That's what you're trying to do.
So that, that makes sense.
And one of the ways, if they, if they, if they want to be the boss of everything,
maybe you give them a little bit more as much decision making process, you can, as to
what task or what projects they're in charge of, so that makes them feel a little bit like
their empowered.
And I shouldn't say, makes them feel like they're empowered.
You actually are empowered.
You know what I mean?
So there's a, there's a pretty significant distinction, because once again, people will recognize,
if you're just letting them do it to make them feel good about it, they're going to know that.
Yeah.
Okay, Jocco.
Thanks for the decision.
You gave me a choice of one thing.
Thank you.
The color of the hands.
Yeah.
So, so, you know, maybe let them really express their authority and leadership on owning what it is that
they're owning.
But the question says, they're not taking ownership of their responsibilities.
So let's make sure first that we're not, that we're giving them full reign and full ownership
of their responsibilities and we're not micromanaging in there.
Now, if that, if we're beyond that and we got people that just want to be in charge of a whole thing.
Well, cool.
That's, that's actually awesome.
You want to be in charge of everything.
If Echo is in our team and you want to be in charge of everything, hey, guys, check it out.
Right now, this next, you know, project that we're working, Echo is going to run it.
I'm going to sit back and by the way, next project, Bill, you're running and next project Fred, you're running.
Now we're all going to get to actually get in the hotseed and eat you.
And I'll tell you what, you're going to see number one.
You're going to see some people go, ah, you, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
They wanted to sit in the back and chirp, but they don't actually want to be responsible for anything.
So that puts them to rest right away.
You're also what's gonna happen with everybody is they're all gonna see that this thing that looks so easy from the back of the room is a lot harder than they think
That's what it's like running a seal mission the guy in the back that's never been in charge before
We should just do it like this and
That guy you say okay here you run this and then you know in six hours they come up and say hey
Yeah, you can be ahead without we're supposed to contact and decomplect with these other units
Okay, it's a little tricky and you thought maybe isn't it
Yeah, but you actually put people in charge of things if they want to be in charge of things put them in charge of things
It's great and you know don't let them fall in your face don't let them get anyone killed don't let them
You know get anyone injured or losing a strategic
ground we're not gonna do that
But we're gonna let them have the opportunity to step up and lead if they do a good job
Sweet
Sweet now you've got them you can rely on them you can actually put them in charge of projects now you don't have to micromanage
We don't have to watch over them. This is this is a no-loose situation this happened actually one of my one of my
Patuna's going through training and one of the platoon commanders came up to me
We were just putting them pulling up a tune through training and he comes up and he's oh my platoon chief wants to run everything
And I said good let him run everything let him run everything that's perfect
Then you can focus on you know other things don't worry about it
But ego right we want to be running everything we want that we all I'm the guy in charge. Yeah, no let him run it and it's just
It's it's the the reason the thing that holds people back from letting other people run things is insecurity
Hmm if I think echo is gonna do a better job than me or I think you're gonna do a really good job
And you're gonna shine and I don't feel like I do a good job
I'm gonna hold you back as the best of my ability. We like no echo
You're going you're going to stay in your lane. Yeah, I'm happy so we're here. No
But if I if I know if I'm secure in my leadership
Man echo oh you want to run this dude awesome here you go here's the plan
Once you know here's the here's the portfolio why don't you put the plan together?
I'm gonna be over here looking down road on the next project and looking for our next thing down the road
Going out and getting another client to bring into the game. We're gonna make this happen. No factor
Yeah, it seems like counterintuitive isn't it? Yeah, it is you want to you want me to say
Who knows how you're keeping the people in their lanes? Yeah, I'm gonna tell you what you do let him out of their lanes
Let him into your lane let him run some stuff
Build a new leader to beautiful thing
when
You you know when you're insecure you want you don't want them to shout out shine you you know
You can tell that where I think it's natural though
You know when people
Maybe a little insecure you know or if you're not as good as maybe you hope or what I think it's natural be a little bit insecure of course
Here's how in my experience anyway
We're I could tell where I'm being insecure where if someone's performing a certain thing and
You're kind of like you can feel it consciously you kind of hope that they don't do that good
But man that I know rats bad
It's bad, but that's how you can tell that's how you can tell if you have that feeling
Oh, you should you should definitely you if you have that feeling check yourself. Yeah, I know what here
I am hoping that my own team member. I know that's a good job
Yeah, that's a bad situation real bad. You want to hope everyone's doing great. Yeah, and you know this happened on the planet and I talk about it in the book
Extreme ownership was
You know the Delta Patoon commander. He was worried that this element that had come into work in his a.o
He was worried that they were gonna be better than him and take his job
And he told me that that's it. Hey, bro
If they take your job good, I'll find a new job for you. There's so much work we got work to do don't worry about it help them help them take your job
And I'll find you a new job
It turns out that there egos were too big and they couldn't let that happen
But that's the same situation
You got somebody that thinks gonna take your job and do better than you help them and then find new work
Because because we're trying to help the team right there's a mission there's an overall mission
And if echo can do something better than me hey here's the turnover here's the lessons
I learned you're better at this than I am you keep running with it. I'm gonna go find something that I'm good at
Or an area that I can help
That's just supporting the whole team
It's a winner
So and you know what sitting
In the podcast studio. It's so easy. Yeah talk about that
Yeah, but it's so hard for people to do that. It really is really is yeah. So one of those things where you're dealing with your actual feelings in the situation
We're not dealing with our actual feelings in the situation right now, but which but it doesn't that mean that it's
That's good, you know you that we're you're giving a fresh like view you were yeah, you know you are detached
I am the catch get accurate advice and the more detached and you pointed out some red flags right if I'm hoping that these guys go on the mission and fail
That's a red flag that you're being selfish and insecure about your job and what you're doing and if someone can do it job better than you
Let them do it
That's gonna help the whole team
Yeah, so it's like you're us in the podcast room
We're like you know if you get a guy in the maze
The maze of emotions and
We're outside of the maze on top we can see the whole maze. We're not in the maze of emotions
We're on top we can look at the whole scenario the whole maze
So we can tell that guy what to do effectively. Yes, you know echo you just described detachment
There you go. That's what detachment is like that's what that's what that's what it's like for me
I can see the maze and I remember learning how to step back
And step above and look at the maze. I remember
Remember learning that and going oh, that's all you gotta do yeah, and then I remember taking it from the training ground
The battle field and then realizing that that's what you need to do in the everyday interactions with people and especially once I got on the business world
Then I
The thing that was cool about when we started echelon front now I would be witnessing like I'd go into a meeting
And I would be detached. I would be up above the maze
Of emotions in turmoil
And so now I would get to see it
And then I would start bringing the leadership and saying look at what this looks like to me. Yeah, they'd go go
I don't like that. I don't like that one to the video. Yeah, go into the video and and so then that's how you learn
We go to the video look what it looks like from up above the maze and now you see you see what you were doing here in your meeting
You had everybody so
Intimidated that no one said anything you just gave a 15 minute meeting no one responded in any way to anything
You said you think everyone in that room agreed with everything you said not a chance
They didn't say work. Why is that you intimidated them you bullied them and now you're not getting any feedback
And they're gonna execute the plan that they don't believe in and that's probably less effective than the one that they have coming from the field
Yeah, congratulations congratulations no not congratulations
Let's get this up
Like you know
So I was in the in traffic
And something to think about
I was in traffic and you know how the you have the two lanes right so I'm gonna turn left on the light
Yeah, then the lane next to me they're going straight
So whoever the person in front of the person that was next to me both went straight
They were taking too long
So the lady next song in the horn all credit like oh going like this all crazy so of course I look over at and she's going crazy
She looks over at me she's like like do you believe this kind of thing all going nuts mean
When I'm looking at myself
You know
Other people around me there are just like what this lady is going nuts, you know
So that's an example of being on the outside looking in her she thought it was justifiable honk of the horn looking nuts
But meanwhile we're on that so I'd looking at her like, right you know how you look and you know what that situation is you
Didn't have anywhere to be
She did well
Then her head like she was you know, I'm saying though she's a person that had left for late work late as you was gonna be in trouble and blah, blah, blah
And that that 30 set that that 10 second that eight seconds. Yeah, it was probably like three was an eternity for her
Yeah, she just is going nuts just like I'll talk about the airport if I'm running late for the flight
TSA takes five minutes it could be no factor or it could drive me completely insane
You know and that's that was her and you know what these days when I screw something up
I don't get frustrated like that. You know that's what we're talking about the first question
I'm like oh my god
I look at myself and go I can't believe I left late. Yeah, do this. I'm I'm an idiot. Yeah, I won't let that happen again
I said that in 1996 and I haven't let it happen
See the mean though I was outside the maze
Yeah, I know she's feeling
Oh these guys not going go green light go
It's time to go universal yeah, so I understand the feeling but look how you look from the outside, you know
Did she check herself at all? No when she saw you know
She looked at to me for some emotional support. Yeah, as if you believe this guy, you know get
Crazy with me kind of think that was the look
Yeah, man, so I think that's I think that's another
Understand the difference between feeling in behavior as well, you know like I feel I know that's a frustrating thing it can be
But don't behave like that calm down
person next question
What have you learned about yourself or learn in general over the course of the last 70 plus podcast
So
The the biggest thing that I learned have learned in the past 70 podcasts is that I have a lot more to learn
That's what I learned and the amount of information out there that will help us get better and smarter and more effective as humans
The amount of information is is pretty boundless
and also
You also see
the repetitive themes that we see over and over again that
Constantly come up and reinforce themselves now
with that I
Think that seeing these repetitive themes, but each with its own little angle
Give I have given me a better I don't want to say a better understanding, but I guess I don't know what other word to use a more
granular understanding of
Human nature and of leadership and of war and of life
Because you get to
Nothing teaches better than experience, but you can't experience
a thousand years of life in reality, but through
Leading and understanding and seeing what other people have gone through
You do get some level of experience and I know you just went to
You just did the FTX with with
Ashillon front you went to the shoots video with life in JP and
For those of you that don't know, Ashillon front we do
Leadership and management consulting and sometimes we do
Feel training exercise where we take people out and we teach them how to shoot and we teach in fundamental tactics of fire maneuvering
Then we give the missions to accomplish and so you know you you I know you just went out to do your first one and when you got back
You know you said I kind of felt a little bit of what it's like to be in a firefight and then you kind of backed off
You like well, no, I didn't I didn't you know, I'm not trying to say that and I said no actually
You did feel a little bit of what it is like to be in a firefight because you saw people maneuvering and you
You were getting hit with with plastic rounds that hurt and you knew you need to get down
And you saw the people getting frustrated and you saw people getting fustered that's that is is it exactly like combat? No and there's also a
You know that the step up to real combat is huge because now you're gonna die if you screw up
But there is a glimpse and there is a there is a a certain level of
Understanding that you absolutely gain from those scenarios that you're put into
And it's the same thing when you read a book and you read it the right way and you gather the information from it
You you don't have the experience itself
But there's no doubt you can learn from it so I think for me that's
That's the biggest thing is really reading with a lot of intent to pull lessons out
Seeing the multiple lessons seeing the different things from different angles and I've talked about this before
You know when you learn an arm lock from seven different instructors
They each teach you something a little bit different and something that works in some detail that you didn't see
And then on top of that when you learn an arm lock from the bottom and from the top and from the garden from the close garden from the open garden from this cross side and from the mountain
You every one of those different angles that you learn it from you get better
You get each one of those angles makes you better at the other angles too
So I think that's the biggest thing for me is just
Learning how much I didn't know and then taking what I can bring on board and assimilating it into my
View and understanding like I said my view and understanding of the world of human nature of war
And of life
Yeah, it's been it's been fun for me and educational
I agree I think I mean obviously I approach this thing from a different position
but
You know the no complaining
Think or people like no complaining
I think that really got reinforced in me. It's one of those things where what is it?
Who said it? Yola where he says either do or do not there is no try so a little bit different and see either you do it
Yeah, you know said that and from the Star Wars series in part sure expect you okay do or do not
There is no try got it
He said a lot of other cool shit, but nonetheless when you know when you're tasked with something or you're I don't know wife
Ask you to do something or whatever either do it or you don't do it. Don't do it and complain about it the whole time
You know where the and that's a common thing where is a car?
I don't do it and then they'll do it then they'll complain about while they're doing it or after they do it
Or before they or before during ad after that, you know
So it's one of those things where and don't even complain in here. This is I'm just saying this is what I've kind of learned
Overall and it's it's weird because this wasn't necessarily a specific lesson
But it's just it kind of just gets incorporated into your brain where
You just kind of
Don't even complain in your own head, you know, you know when you when you yeah, I don't know sweet
I don't know you're like
I can't believe I'm sweeping the floor. What about all this other stuff that I do and all this that don't even do that?
You know, okay, I'm tasked with just like how you it was you regard you compared it to
Doing paperwork. They're like yeah, but yeah good. You don't want to do paperwork
No one to do paperwork. You do paperwork. Yeah, but you do the paperwork and you do that and you
Crush it as you say you do that paperwork the best you can
So man if I get to sweep the floor I got to you know wash dishes. I got to whatever
Watch I'm gonna do this the best I can. What in fact take pride in that you know take pride not necessarily even in
Washing of the dishes. I said yeah, I take pride in that, but not necessarily just that take pride in the fact that you're the guy
Who can wash the dishes that good? You know depend on me. Hell yeah. I can do that
Give me more stuff. I'll do it more
I mean, I'd say that last part because you have other things to do sometimes, but
Saying anything your task with do it the best you can't for I mean that even sounds kind of cliche like oh
I've heard that just do everything but to really have that happen kind of in your mind where you regard it all your tasks
Whether you like or not that way where you can do it best you can it's
That's that's a life improving
Situation yeah, yeah, and going back to what I was so I just thought this while you were talking
General Mattis
He he said the other day there's an article about him because he's extremely well read and
He has a personal library of seven thousand books
Very smart very well educated very well read, but what he said is very similar to what I said
He said you know I wouldn't get I'm not gonna get surprised
Because what I'm gonna face on the battlefield someone else is faced before and he made a couple comparisons
I can't think of him off the top of my head, but you know when I saw this when he you know
He said when I saw this for the first time I remembered this historical situation when I saw that for the first time
I remembered this historical situation so I never was surprised
By what I was seeing because I had seen it before maybe only the book
But at least you have a heads up and that's what you're looking for and
What's cool is if you extrapolate the war which is what we're doing on this podcast taking the war piece of it
And extrapolating the human nature piece of it and that's gonna give you a broad look at the way people act
the way humans act and interact and
That's what I think has been
Really good for me to just really the other thing is when you you know when you teach it to do to move and you get better at it
Just by teaching it and you understand it more well for me by writing the notes and putting them in the podcast and then
Thinking about which direction I'm gonna go and what I'm gonna talk about. I've learned it better
You know, I've become things that used to things that I may have known instinctively before and done for 10 years
Just like when we wrote extreme ownership there was things in there that I said
You know as was writing what happened? I'm like, oh, yeah, I did a hear I used to do it there
This is where I learned it, but I never really thought about it
Until and even going beat before that when I took over the training for the West Coast you'll teams
I would with the first time I wrote down the laws of combat the four fundamental laws of combat
I had known those I had I had acted that I had performed them for years
I had never written them down until I took over training and saw a platoon and said these guys aren't doing these things that would make them successful
Boom, I wrote them down that was it and once I wrote them down and sort of talk about them and show guys
They made even more sense and I saw them even easier when people would make a mistake
So it's I think it's that's what's been good for me is it's been a real great mental exercise
So thanks everyone for listening and making me do this podcast once a week whether I like it or not
And actually yeah, and that's another thing
Where you know we almost went to one podcast every two weeks and and so I was just talking to a buddy mind that's in a company that
I was talking about he was that one of the few guys when we I kind of was thinking about this idea of
Of you know going to one podcast every two weeks and we were driving the same as Mike and great guy
Great leader and we're driving and I and I said hey, you know
I'm just we were driving to go do some work. I was working with his company and I said you know
I'm thinking about you know, maybe doing the podcast once every two weeks instead of once a week
And he was driving and I was just the passenger and also you know he just kind of
He said hey, you know
I just
I
Don't think that's a good idea
I thought you know and he was really he said look, you know, you can't do that
You know really we're listening to the podcast. We expected to come out on Wednesday
It's got to come out on Wednesday
I think he was like okay any compromise at least is look if you're gonna do it
Then you need to you know you need to give us a more like a six month warning so people can start to get used to and
That was one of the things that swayed me to say you know what I need to start keep hold the line on the podcast
That was the other thing what it was hard
Okay, hey, Jocco mr sitting around saying hey, if it's hard to do it anyways
Yeah, I was it was kind of hard so it was gonna get out of it. Yeah, no hold the line Jocco. I'm talking to you Jocco
Practice what you preach you know what I mean yeah, it's always hard you got to read a book and you got to
Unlearn take something. Oh, so what do it anyways?
Bring it
It's true. It's like Mike for the podcast continually coming out on once a week
No, they're really a thing like but it um it
One of the other things kind of like what you're saying is I gonna go is um you kind of either do it and get it done
Like this is what a person in my experience
Be from experience where you know like you'll ask about about something like hey, what's the status on this or that
So it's either done or it's not done like where you can be
You know, I would have done that but you know, I did all this stuff all that stuff after you said
I would have done that but like that doesn't matter at all either you did it or you didn't do it either
You were like you know kind of like how it says you either effective or you ineffective kind of thing and the more and I think it's has a lot to do with just hanging around you more where
I tell you about something and you'd be like okay is this done or whatever is this about to be done or where are we on this and then I'll say
Oh, yeah, it's done then it's like okay. You have this kind of look of okay
Like solid like thumbs up kind of thing
But if I say no, I know I know because of this right when I go into because you have this kind of weird haze that goes over you like you don't care
You're nice you're nice well and you're not like woo, what do you mean?
You're not like that at all, but I can see the little haze go over you like you don't care at all about these excuses
That I'm about to say or these justifications that I'm ready to make quite well
Yeah
So and that was early on now
I just know it's automatic it's either the answer is yes or no and if it's no and it should have been done then next time
I see it should be done and that applies to everything and I make the analogy where
Nothing out the story where my brother would be like hey, buy me some wine. I'm like wine you ever been into wine section
Brought you to huge
Give me this wine. It's called this called this you know to the cabernet
I don't know whatever you call that that should be like the beef jerky section
That's how big the beef jerky section yeah, bro
Yeah, it should be but no as of now it's wine and if you go in there and he wants some specific wine
It's easy to go in there and be like you know what this wine section is too vast
I'm either gonna grab any wine like I see and that's it or I'm not gonna get it
Tass me with this big tab. I'm just going in here to get some
Lidges and you know you got me treasure hunting in the wine section and so I'm not gonna do that, but I
Had it in my mind that I'm like no, I mean you want some wine you want this one all right
Well, I'm gonna get it so cuz when I come home
I'm playing around yeah when I come home either I got the wine or I didn't get the wine and you don't want to be the guy who didn't get the wine
No matter what your excuse is I'm telling you bro
I apply that to everything apply that to something important, you know
Jays wine is important
So unimportant
Jesus
nonetheless yeah all good things
We got from this podcast I think I would concur next question
Does the you know what else is cool about this podcast is people that here and from people
That have done made some awesome progress
Yeah, and that's awesome that that's that's that is actually the best thing about the podcast
Yeah, is here and from people out in the field that
Got promoted got a new job move to a leadership position
in lost 72 pounds gained 12 pounds of bleed muscle mass
You know whatever those
Whatever the achievement was I talked to guy the other day
That that stopped abiding his nails right like you don't think much of it
But he said he bit his nails for you know 34 straight years and tried the little
Nail polish that goes on there and you know you you go to the hypnotists and you go to all these different things no and you know what you know
And you finally said I'm not gonna bite my nails anymore right not gonna do it
I'm gonna impose my will yeah
And then you're done yeah, so here and everybody that does that kind of thing is awesome
That's definitely the most that so I guess I'm going into not what I learned right this the general
overall
World of the podcast is to talk to people that have made some significant
Progress in their life and they attribute that progress to listening to podcast which I always reattribute when they come and about it back to them
Because I didn't stop biting your nails
72 pounds you did I didn't get promoted you did yeah, that's you that's not me. That's you
Yeah, man, and so it's cool that you got a little
Little little boost sure from the podcast maybe you saw something a little bit differently that's awesome
But you know you out there in the field you're the one that's making it happen
We're sitting back here maybe we're right a little cover fire little cover moved on
But the the thing that's cool about that to is it's
It proves what we talk about on here all the time which is the human will is so strong
But people sometimes people go through their life. They didn't know that they had it and so they just got to get recognized
That hey you've got this strong will that you can
You can you can use I was I was I was listening to an interview with Jack Black of
Tenacious D and he was talking about when he first discovered that he had a good singing voice
And he was in high school and he tried out for some school play and then he was supposed to sing this part and he hit that
You know and we need he said to himself like wow you know I've got this thing
I got this Lamborghini I didn't know I had this I got this extra gear that I can kick into
That's exactly what he says by the way. He's just got this extra gear
If that's what I think people listen to podcasts they always and realize I got this extra gear
They got this thing that they didn't know they had because they never had a tested before
Never talked about it. No one ever showed it to him. They didn't recognize it for whatever reason and
All of a sudden they realized oh I got this human will that is stronger than my weakness
And I'm just gonna engage it watch this nail biting no more
Jelly donuts not happening
Getting out work to work not gonna happen
Yeah, and it's I think it's a product because I'm one of those people straight up where I was surprised how how little
Actual will it took to make these little changes, you know because and and it's good because it does like these books and stuff
It puts it into perspective where these guys are really exercising their will you know with these crazy things and
All that is isn't is an illustration that's it that it didn't even take
Me hearing that to understand that oh it doesn't take much will to do a workout when I didn't feel like it
It didn't it didn't it didn't take that for me to recognize it that's that's just an illustration
It took me actually doing it and be like that wasn't hard at all
It seems hard and here's another reason why people don't realize it I think I was one of those people who didn't
Because everywhere you look you're always seeing like the the the four
Helpful tips to stop biting your nails or they're four all these like external things
You know they go into it to go to a hip netist
You know go do something outside of yourself
But something put some nasty taste tasting nail polish on your fingers. Yeah, so it makes you not want to buy all the stuff where
Really all you have to do just how you always say all you have to do is do it you know
You don't you want to stop biting nails. Okay stop biting your nails and if you really look at it like that
Where like if you would have said to me. Oh you don't feel like working out go workout if I would've been okay
I don't feel like working out so so I'm gonna go workout and you just keep it that simple that's all you got to do
You're like whoa you're done with the work. I know it was easy. I'm gonna do that next time
You're almost kind of look forward to doing it everyone's gonna want to go back you look forward to exercising
You will just like you get look forward to certain work out sometimes not always right sometimes
I'm like oh good. I got squats today and I don't want to do it but sometimes you're squats
Yeah, get something so you can get the same feel about about
Mobilizing your will yeah, it's like that yeah exactly right that's exactly what it is
That's actually one of the reasons I was listening to you know Brady guys they have that the true
Project podcast I was just going with um with our bill our either our bill
I don't know how you say I just know I just know is your yeah, but I just know a bunch of
Twitter yeah, I never heard his name pronounced. So I don't know that bitch big you know I'm beast and
There was just so they were talking about you know what music you listen to and the in the you know when you work out and stuff to get nuts and
But I don't listen to any music and that's one of the reasons where oh, that's why I did it
I was like I'm always trying to distract myself from the pain you know and let me listen to this music
Get me fired up or to make me feel good kind of mentally and so I can get through the pain of you know
I don't know Matt cons or whatever
That's like listen to listen to no music but it turns out I like that better now because you just feel more in touch with like what you're doing
Um, but oh, here's that here's one so I'll do
What are they called they're kind of like front squats, but you hold the two kettle bells like this. Yeah, they're like I feel they're called but
So I'll do 25 reps of 25 so it's hard so when you get to about 12
You're like oh, you gotta you know you kind of start to hit a certain type of wall and then when you get up to like
16 18 you're like oh, you know, so what as a result of that
I would play little numbers games in my mind so I'd count backwards from six six five four you know
I mean so you just kind of like I'm approaching the end it'll be done soon kind of thing
But what let it start doing is like nope. I'm gonna count them
One two three four five and you'll end in the beginning
I started to feel like tang when I'm getting up to 12. I'm like oh my gosh the pain is coming and it comes and you're like dang
And then instead of playing more mental games like let's just count down from here because so the end is you know
Insight nope. I'm gonna count up now and when you count up the numbers going up give you this weird mental picture like the pain is coming more
No because you're you're deeper into this thing, you know and it's like this it's almost like mental abuse
You're doing this yourself
But after a while you can look forward to that you kind of look forward to those higher numbers
You know, it's like bringing it kind of thing and it gets you it essentially gets you even more fired up
Good, oh, I'm telling you embrace the pain
In
Great
Does the inability of the average person to defend themselves make them more susceptible to fear generally in life and
Kenju Jitsu president Jitsu reduce societal fear
I think it's it's a pretty obvious answer
But yeah, I mean obviously if you can defend yourself
It's gonna give you more
confidence in
The world and if you don't know how to defend yourself you're gonna have more fear in the world that's just the way it is
And I know that
Jitsu definitely gave me a lot of confidence in the world because when you're looking at someone
You at least know you're not a pushover at a minimum
You know, I'm not gonna go out easily so yeah, I think if you don't know how to
Defend yourself at all. I think you're definitely gonna be
More susceptible to fear that's kind of common sense and
Also
the the thing with
Not knowing when you don't know about things you
You are more scared of them
You've been in confrontations because you're on them on the jitsu mat your in confrontations all the time
And if you do in a case and you know the occasion that you should put on boxing gloves and boxing even strike during
Jitsu you should do that stuff so you recognize what it's like to be in fight and then you have
You'll be less afraid of the unknown because it's known
We're always afraid of the unknown. Well now this is known now the other thing is the better you are with
Jitsu and better you are at fighting the less
Apped the less likely you are to have to use it because
Because people will know that by the way you're acting that you're probably not a person that should be messed with
And
The other thing is I think when people actually know how to fight
They put up less of a front about who they are about trying to act like a tough guy because hey, man
I'm feeling pretty good, you know I got no problem saying hi to you
I can I can say hi to you in the street like hey how's it going? No big deal
I'm not feeling like you're gonna take advantage of me now because I know how to fight
So I love you jitsu guys are super nice guys, you know because they're not trying to prove how tough they are
You actually know how tough they are. Yeah, so I think that's pretty obvious, you know
That's the the many benefits of
Jitsu from a personal level then for as far as societal fear. I would also say yes, it's it's helpful
Because if you can handle yourself on a personal level, right?
Then you can handle yourself in other
Dynamic situations and you're more aware of things and you are better at staying calm
Right, Jitsu teach you how to stay calm. Oh, yeah, you get in a bad situation if you panic
You're going down so and you get in put bad situations all the times you get used to it and you realize
That you need to detach and you need to get out of your head and camp panic and cake it claustrophobic
You used to get claustrophobic and you don't really get claustrophobic too much anymore. Oh, it's literally
Straight up and and also with Jiu Jitsu and
And you know next martial arts training boxing mojitai wrestling you overcome adversity
You know you overcome adversity you have to and so when you know how to overcome adversity on the
Matt or in the cage or in the ring that's gonna help you in real life overcome adversity
So I think that those are real simple reasons why
Jitsu is good if you didn't think I thought Jitsu is good. I do think it's good. I need it for good for everyone
Updating
In really there's a lot of martial arts you could put in there. I'm talking about Jitsu
But it's the same with boxing it's the same with with
Mojitai it's the same with wrestling it's the same with judo
Sometimes I forget to mention judo. I shouldn't judo's also very effective martial art
So I think all those things are very helpful for personal overcome in personal fear and
Giving people confidence and thereby overcoming societal fears as well. Yeah
This is kind of a sign up with with the Jiu Jitsu force. Let's say and this more applies to
This
Concept kind of has been coming up recently where you know your first day in Jiu Jitsu where you I think you and me and kind of
Our time where we started Jiu Jitsu we didn't look at it in terms of like playing art
I didn't you know you started Jiu Jitsu in 1992. Oh, I'm just saying from 92 all away too about I don't know
I don't know the date but I'm saying if you like old school jiu jitsu where
You's probably started Jiu Jitsu because of hoist Gracie if you're one of these people one of us
That's what I started Jiu to hoist Gracie when you have see one tooth, you know
Where we looked at Jiu Jitsu as okay if I get in a fight with someone
I want to be up to win the fight even if he's bigger than me
It wasn't because oh I want to be the next world champion, you know concerned about how to effectively hold
You know the most points of my body points in this yeah, or when I pull guard like the coolest like flip move
I can do whatever and I'm not saying like that's what it is. I'm not saying that but there that is in the game now
So sometimes a result of this sometimes you can go with no Jiu Jitsu experience
You don't know about twice Gracie necessarily you haven't you know that isn't what compelled you to learn Jiu Jitsu
You just hear great things like you know from taco or whoever and you're like hey I want to go
Learn Jiu Jitsu this is the best fighting thing according to jiu kama go see I'm gonna go see what up
And then they go in there and then let's say the first day they'll learn you know just an arm lock from the bottom or you know
Something that if you don't go in with the full context of what Jiu Jitsu is it won't
Translate you know you learn a movie and you'll be like wait how how am I gonna go in a fight now?
You know it's like cool that's a cool move. It's kind of like you know what guy hey let me show you when you're kid
Let me show you this finger lock. Yeah, you're like that's cool, but how you gonna get my finger
Exactly, you know like all this day just doesn't apply to a fight so so just to answer you're right
I just did a little like tiny
Instructional thing for some people that hadn't trained before and it was to support a charity and so it's all good
But you know these people never done Jiu Jitsu before and I taught them you know the mountain escape
Right and and immediately you know one of the guys hey
You know what happens when they do this because he's doing this right here. Yeah, okay, so bring it back in everyone
And basically you know after this happened a couple times I said here's the deal
I'm teaching you a new language. Yeah, so far. I've taught you the word
The right man that's the only word. I've taught you the yeah
I haven't even taught you I because that would that would be a context of self-awareness
Which you don't have right you only know the that's it
That's it that's all you know and actually I shouldn't be you I should have said I just taught you the word
Purple yeah because
You can't the actually can apply to different things right this when you just learn one thing
It's it's not meaningless, but it's only it's almost but if you walk into a foreign country and the only word
You know how to say was
Purple and their language is not gonna get you very far at all right
It's not and that's the same thing so you're right in the context of like a singular move
Jitu is worthless right now
Back when I learned five moves and knew the rear naked joke the arm lock the camera and no one else knew anything
When you can say five different words in a world where no one can speak
You have power and that's the way it used to be now. It's not like that anymore everybody everybody watches you have see
Everybody watches you have see and so they everyone seen in arm lock before everyone seen a rear naked joke
They you can watch a rear naked joke and see that's a simple move you can see how you put that on somebody
So yes you are correct, but if you got it you got to do more than just the context of like a singular move because that's gonna be very useful to you
Yeah, so when you
All right, remember watching you see and there was a guy who would commentate right kind of a dirty guy, but he
He kind of knew apparently he took Jitu so he would kind of call it even okay, so now hoist crazy
He wants to get on top right now stop his position
He can't get to take down so now he's pulling guard kind of thing and then or he'll be like okay
He's establishing position with a mount and he's gonna he's gonna punch him until he turns over and then he's gonna choke him
And he's calling it any does it right so I remember thinking okay that mount position very
It's very powerful or if he's on the bottom you want guard kind of thing
You can see you know cuz you kind of explain so when I first started Jitu like an actual class
I knew what guard was I knew what mount was I knew those positions in why they're important where you know
Like if you're if someone's mounted on you where a hoist crazy would always be mounted on the person
It's like it's really hard to get out
He's gonna struggle and and if you turn over your even worse
Situation, you know, so I kind of knew that so I knew the actual context and
A lot of people when they go and you just to just because they hear about how cool it is they don't have that that that foundation going in so I think man
I think that
I don't know if they'd ask for it or what but I think when when when instructors when a new person a brand new person don't know
Zero days of Jitu if they teach that like this is the mount. This is why it's important
You know just like how you did at the master where you like you know, you know, I can you you can hit just like that and then that'll provide
Consident at the end how you taught a move you know submission or whatever then it's like okay in mount
This is one of the many things you can do and it's like oh and by the way when I say many I mean infinite. Yeah
Yes, yeah, so yeah, so yeah, I think that if you and I guess this goes out to like anyone who goes into their Jitu class and learned
Just happened to be on the day where you learn like some kind of arbitrary move given the fact that you don't know the foundation
It with the foundation any move is gonna make a lot more sense as long as you have that foundation
Important somehow important of guard the importance of you know all these other things
Of course we all want to learn the submission what cool submission? Who can I get this guy in who wants to fight me?
This guy yeah
Another thing in people houses, you know
Well, they're he keeps pulling my hand away. I go yeah, it's a fight you're fighting another person. It's not just who's not magic
I say you did some magic, but it's not magic. It's not magic
It's a fight the person's gonna resist you have to have moves. Yeah, I didn't it doesn't turn into magic until you have it all
Together yeah, then it turns into magic and then you bestow it upon someone who doesn't you know
It's like magic right man. He's the train this little guy George he's a purple belt no's white belt and
Man he's he's the one who taught me butterfly guard. He was small too and
He would you be flying me around doing butterfly guard sweeps and like straight arm locks and stuff like from the
Bottom yeah, like probably what is this guy doing magic yeah, and one time he's like someone at wow
We're you know how like when you're rolling you can kind of talk to people while you're rolling
You know especially if you're rolling with a guy who's advances well because you don't have to focus on what you're doing kind of thing
So this was an introduction of that concept where I'm rolling with George he's carrying on a conversation with this guy
Not inappropriate like what did you do this?
We didn't it wasn't that it was someone was asking him like hey like how do you how did you do that kind of thing?
He's like well this is what he's doing and while we're rolling he's kind of
Commentating his rolling and he's like so and this sets up the sweep which I'm about to get him with and it yeah, and he gets me with this sweep
And that's the small that's why it is that's why it is kind of magic magic because
When if I could make
This coin disappear if I could actually do that that would be magic
If I can take your arm against your will and straight it out and there's nothing you can do to stop it
Yeah, it's kind of magic still yeah in some way
I mean type that is what magic is though right when when you make it a pierce like illusion
Right where you a me go about talking about I'm talking about actual
Yeah, actual magic yeah, no such thing yeah, well, yeah, I know tough as jets here
What did you see that way when they they don't know when they don't know how you did that?
How did you get it?
You know me so it's similar to that making the coin disappear, but it really just went behind yeah, not go or whatever possible
I'll wait you by two to go
Yeah, let me see how you did that. Yeah, watch this do it again. I don't got it do it do it do it get it
Good
Next question
Hi, Jockel. I've been listening to your to you ever since I first heard you with Tim Ferris I've been considering jiu jitsu
Man jiu jitsu. Same thing yeah ever since hearing you guys talk about it so passionately however
I've had a shoulders I've had sold shoulder surgery
Liberal tear in the past and some issues with bicep tenonitis
And I'm worried that grappling sport that a grappling sport might make me prone to injury again
Would you recommend you jitsu for someone like me?
Thanks in advance for taking the time and providing your head life
So there's another form of jiu jitsu actually and that I don't talk about very much
But it's definitely a feasible thing for such a waste like this. That's the learning jiu jitsu
Right learning jiu jitsu learning the moves
Drilling them gaining the understanding of how they all fit together and then only sparring in like a really controlled environment and and by that
I mean
Highly skilled instructor that isn't going to hurt you or let you get hurt doing something stupid
And
That will provide you with enough resistance so that you know moves are going to work but not taking it to fall on level 27
You know bloodbath battle and
Unfortunately this situation is kind of is very likely and I've seen this perform sure you have to where you get somebody that made that an injury or maybe they're
They're in some job where they can't get hurt, you know
All right and surgeon or an older person that doesn't want to get hurt
They're in the middle so I've seen this people do this before what they do is they basically take jiu jitsu
They take private jiu jitsu classes and they only roll with the instructor and they learn moves and they learn how to put together
That's
That's one way to do it is you just find a good it now
You I've heard nightmare stories about this too where the jiu jitsu instructor feels the need to prove himself
Which is just pathetic. Yeah
There's no way when you go in and you tell them instructor hey
I've got a bad shoulder. I've got a bad knee. I've got a bad neck. I've got a bad back
Whatever you tell them and you say look I just want to I just want to learn the techniques and and learn how to apply them in a very
Fundamental way. I'm not here to compete
I have no ego and I don't want to prove anything. I just want to be more knowledgeable
The jiu jitsu instructor should be more than happy to take you on board and and let this you know do this
you can also do it
If you I mean because it jiu jitsu private instruction is very expensive
You can also do it in a group setting but what you have to do
So you have to keep your ego completely in check unlike anything you've ever tried before because every idiot
And by every edit I mean every human being on earth all of them
You take that person
If I take a person that weighs 145 pounds
Who's never trained any jiu jitsu or wrestling before and I say okay
You know you want me to teach you jitsu here. I'm gonna put this arm lock on you and I take their arm
And I say okay, so this is what it feels like when you get arm locked their instinct is well you how are you getting it my arm there?
You won't be able to do that. They're gonna fight it. They're gonna fight it
Always gonna fight it so everyone's ego gets involved so you have to
Just completely put your ego in check because you think oh I'm gonna roll with this guy over you
But I'm gonna think a little bit stronger than I'm gonna go and you just get hurt that's how you get hurt
Yeah, especially if you have pre-existing injuries
So you have to do that you have to find the right training partners that are completely mellow and have nothing to prove
And are very relaxed and and experience in jiu jitsu
So if they do catch something that's gonna be a little bit awkward. They say oh yeah, man. Let's let you go no big deal no big deal at all
And and and and you do that and then you slowly very slowly escalate over time once you know and understand
Jiu jitsu you start to go a little bit harder
Still keeping your ego in check and all that now if you do that
You should be able to get into jiu jitsu over them out of doctor. I don't know the condition of your laboral tear so I
I don't have the authority or the or the
What the proper
credentials to to give you the go ahead
But if you do what I just said there's you should be okay now the problem is that's hard to do what I just said
It's hard for everybody because everybody's competitive and jiu jitsu is a very competitive thing and when I say competitive
It's mentally competitive just makes you think I want to
I had these guys in the other day these guys are you know senior executives learning jiu jitsu for the first time didn't know anything
And I taught them you know how I taught them the oomph in the elbowscape to escape them out
I I told them to go through them like just to practice the move on each other
They do they do six minutes of it. They come back and back in the middle. They're sweating
Some of the pairs are sweating because they were having a level seven battle
Yeah, and those and these were again
45 50 55 year old
Executive type people but
You try to move and they want to fight. Yeah
So that's what you got to be careful of and you know you don't want to get you know
You don't want to worship injuries. You don't want to do other you want to have other sports impacted
You know you might enjoy
surfing or whatever playing
Another sport basketball and you ruin it and now you can't play because you did jiu jitsu
I don't want that to happen to you but you can do jiu jitsu in a controlled way
That you shouldn't need to get hurt, but you need to keep your damn ego in check
Yeah, and I think that that seems obvious. I think but
Apparently is not as obvious like you know how you have you know laboral to our special if you had surgery
I've had yeah if you had surgery and by September nice these are all things that like if you do a
Yeah, okay, you got to do a separate program, but you do rehab
Like you'll improve that
Where and that's really the main thing with these injuries
You know how people will they have back or they have shoulder stuff that they get surgery they get it fixed
And then but it's still you know what you're just gonna have that for the rest of your life kind of thing
But if you focus on rehab like it's a straight-up workout
Where I mean don't push it because that's not what rehab is you really have to rehab it but you I tell you you focus on that like it's an actual program like a workout program
Take it seriously
But you can a lot of times you can get rid of these things fully especially like
10 to 90s by September. I like I had surgery on my vice up straight up torn off the bone surgery
So of course, I'm gonna be prone to 10 to 90s, but you just
Man you gotta treat it like it's like that's another thing of your body that you gotta develop, you know
Got to focus on 10 to 90s, you know
So I man I would recommend that big time where and you'll be more compelled to do it when you find a hot fungie
You do it and you're like shoot I could be like getting after it rolling way better if my shoulder like just felt better and
Man you go do some extra stuff like all these little rotator movements for your shoulder because I
Shoulder to massage like during the demonstration you know, sorry, it's not sometimes
During the demonstration pulls my shoulder out which was kind of hurt from like the day before from
Remember Ryan Gillespie oh yeah, yeah, so he hurt my shoulder then
Sardge hurt it the next day anyway, it sells jacked couldn't do any pressing whatever
Do those little bent like use those rubber band things and I would use the cables at the gym at 25 fitness and men
It but brings it back and 10 to 90s same thing you can get therapy and stuff like that do that man and
It'll help it so if you didn't do any kind of rehab and then you just jump into due to it's like yeah, you're gonna be way more
Yeah, and you know like the
The
Disclaimer here is like it's jujitsu. It's a contact sport and you're gonna get twisted up and if you're scared of getting twisted up and you are a
You know concert pianist yeah, or your surgeon
You need to accept the fact that this is the this is a full contact sport and you can definitely get hurt
You know, and we have we have we have an actual surgeon. You know
We got a several doctors, but we have an actual hand surgeon and
You know Dr. Luke trains ghee no ghee does it all full speed and full all the time black belt by the way
Yeah black belt by the way MMA fighter too, but
But yeah, he knows the risks he's cautious. He tapes his finger. You know he just take the precautions
Yeah, you take the precautions and then you accept that there is a level of risk
You know, I train for 20 whatever five years and I hurt my finger, you know like whatever a couple weeks ago
Dang and and I just hurt another finger. You know these things happen
So what are you gonna do?
You're gonna not train that's up that's that's
Impossible
Kind of an option I guess. Yeah, it's kind of an option, but you can train in a method that you are a
Oh less likely to get hurt and you can go so far in the spectrum of not getting hurt that you that you could
Really get that
Possibly getting hurt to an absolute minimum. Yeah, you know, and that's what I said if you're training with a black belt and
Structure and you're just doing privates and you guys have a really good understanding your chance of getting hurt a pretty small
Yeah, yeah
But yeah, if you did
If you let that keep you from doing it, I think you're doing yourself more harm than good
And that goes for anything that's really true is like dang if you have to go to the post office
But you're scared of the statistics of car crashes and you can so what you do not go to the post office
But you got to mail that thing, you know, yeah, you got to get it done
True, David next question. You got to mail that thing. I go whatever you know whatever the case maybe
When you're stepping into a leadership role and you have someone on your staff who's not a team player
Create clicks goes over me and straight to my bosses
When there's a problem and
Whenever whenever whenever has concerns voices them among teammates and not directly to me. How do I continue in my role?
How do I set assess myself and how do I tackle this problem?
Biggest thing we got to do is build in relationship with that person
You know you got to get that person's head you got to find out what's going on you got to find out
You got to you got to you got to talk to him. You got to build that relationship
You're going to talk to him about why they're going over your head
Then you know what when they say well I'm going over your head because this happens you go
Oh, I didn't know that you know I'm going to get that fix and you build up a little trust and then they say some other problem
You get that one fixed and then you say hey man
You know, it's you know, it's kind of hurts the team is when you're telling the team things that are negative
And if we could work together to you know
You tell me what's going on that's negative and then we solve the problem. We're going to do better as a team
And that's that's my goal just do better as a team and I see that you're a leader
Because people listen to you and when you start saying negative things they start thinking negatively because you just
Influential person and and and the influence you have over people is something that is going to be
Can be very beneficial to what we're doing
If you want it to be I want you to want it to be but you know
I'm not you you have that I don't so
Let's work if you could help me move this in a positive direction so our team can be more successful
That's the kind of thing I would do here and and the other thing is you know
Ask them straight up. Hey, what am I doing wrong is leader? What can I do better?
Where can I become
Where can I make more things happen so that way and what you're doing is you're letting down your guard
You're letting them give the opportunity to hopefully be honest with you about what you're doing wrong and then you can give them
You know you can correct those measures now there is a possibility this person is jerk
And when you say what am I doing wrong? We go back and say hey this guy's even notice doing
He's so that's why you need to take it slowly and fuel the situation out and and make an assessment of how they're going to react to these things and
Build a little bit of
Little bit of leadership capital with that person before you go and say what am I screwing up because then it's a girl dude
Jocquad doesn't even know what he's doing. He's asking me what he should be doing
So don't if the person's a jerk you have to watch out for that so that's where we're gonna build a relationship first
It's like building a relationship
Seems like a very
Common theme for stretching solution. It is very much so
You know you take the extreme example of I'm a hostage taker and you're my hostage
And I'm threatening to kill you. What are you supposed to do build a relationship with me?
You want to get me to see you as a human. That's what we're talking about the same thing. That's an extreme example
But this is the same thing going on here. It's a really done by the way. I heard this story was on the news
I forget how old the girl was who's a kid though a girl a kid and she all she did was
Blab to this guy who kiddoctor and he wound up letting her go
Because she she built their relationship with this team member that's creating clicks and doing all this negative stuff
It's because he doesn't know you and he's he's just going. I don't know you know
Jocquad is a mystery to me. He doesn't hang out. I don't know
He's bad. He's just V there's a separation. Yeah, so I'm gonna close that separation. I'm gonna
Blab to him. I'm gonna build a relationship and we're gonna let that little kid go
Yeah
I remember working in the nightclub where you know you have different bosses different managers. They work different shifts or whatever so
one guy
This game is Matt Gilmore tall tall guy
I love that guy. He was real. I don't know for whatever he's actually I could I could just relate to him
You know he was just real nice and I don't know the way he talked was kind of not funny like a comedian
But just kind of you know some people when they talk it's just kind of entertaining
You know every time everyone's in all though you certain words that's just kind of unique to them
It's like I like that anyway really liked him and so I was hoping and he would usually work on Friday Saturdays right
He was kind of high up and then there was other guy
I'm not gonna say his name nonetheless is this other guy and this guy he was like the full on kind where
He had this air about him where he I'm the manager of this club kind of thing and on off time
To feed me had like a party or something that we're cruising or whatever and he talked about
Yeah, you know I'm in the office doing these sexual things with this person and just you know real
Real douchey for lack of a bit of a real douchey kind of guy and one time he was
There was this rule long time ago. There's this rule you can't go upstairs
There was like three levels in this club so you can't go upstairs like this high-end kind of lounge
You can't you wear jeans upstairs
You're just there's a dress guy had been to that one yeah, now you would not be welcome for
Flops and shorts or no you won't even get in the front of apparently
So one day on my off night I had jeans on I went upstairs real quick just to talk to one of my friends
Cake nuts and cuz he was up there and so I was talking to him and this guy this manager the one I didn't like
He was up there and he'd be like he was like hey the rules apply to everyone you know go downstairs
So I'm like oh you know, I'm just I will I'm just gonna talk to him. He's like the rules apply to everyone go downstairs
Like not be nice about it off so I'm like all right, whatever. That's just an example one experience
The next week he comes in on his night off jeans
Upstairs or whatever and as a joke not being a dick as a joke. I was like hey you've jeans on I was working
And he's like he goes he's oh yeah, well my title has a bit more letters than yours does
Yeah, so he said to me so you know I'm not sure where we're going with this. No that I was gonna say that's an example of him not building
Relationship with me
He certainly did not
Matt Gilmore wouldn't have said that he would have to either not he would either
Compromised with me the first night or he wouldn't he would have laughed at my joke and be like
Ha, good point whatever or both he probably would have done both
Still friends with Matt Gilmore by the way
Okay next question in light of recent events what is the best course of action when confronted by an obvious
Abuse of authority resulting in personal injury due to an innocent person to an innocent person that that occurs in one's presence
At what point is it acceptable to physically engage with the saline even though the saline has some kind of authority
Sorry, that's two questions wait what what's the
recent event is the
Person on the airplane getting dragged off and injured because the over
United all that yeah, yeah overbooked flight
Yeah, so any you know obviously I guess you could put more recent events is you know if you if you could have a
Police officer right that's doing something you could have a bouncer
You know, I'm sure you have plenty of stories about your night club days besides just wearing jeans in the wrong area
I don't know is a big violation
But
So so here's what here's what here's my answer that's what do you do and when one of those things happened first of all
The people that are in the situation are wrapped up in the situation
They're they're emotionally mentally wrapped up in the situation the situation is escalated they're caught in a storm
Mm-hmm and
You're not in the storm you're outside the storm. So what do most people do when they see that storm going on? What do most people do tell me
Panic no they pull out their iPhones and they start recording the situation that's what they do
That's what everyone does hey. Oh, there's a fight going on world star. Let's review
You know what I'm saying I'm impressed that you know about world
Yeah, we'll have a lot of good fights on there. I have to watch so
Yeah, well because you learned from you see we wake people up you see some human nature in in videos
So that's what people do so what you actually want to do instead of pulling out your video
It is you want to try and get them out of that moment emotionally
You want to talk to them like a normal person engage with them, you know
Hey hey sir
You need to calm down that's just a police officer. He doesn't mean any harm. Hey, you know officer
That that guy's not a threat to you right now. You know just take a step back it looks like he's trying to relax
You know you want to talk them disengage them get their heads out of those bad scenarios
Yeah, and you know being a calm voice
Say something like I said say something. Hey officer
There's a lot of people that are videoing this right now
You know just a lot of people saw what happened. So let's it's it's you don't have to do anything
else you can let's let's get this person under control
I can give you a hand whatever you know you just want to you and and of course
What is there initial reaction? It'll be back at you but just back away or you know shut up
You're you know you don't know and and so you need it absorb that right say hey look
I'm not I'm not giving you any threats at all. I'm just here to help out
I don't want to see any trouble. Don't want you to get in trouble
You just want to talk to people and get them to get them out of that emotional storm that they're in both sides
Both sides because it's a really nasty situation
You know when you don't listen to me when I start to hurt you when I grab your your wrist
Let's say like one of those like police pain compliance type moves
I grab your wrist and I start to twist it you as a human being
The natural instinct
Some people might have the instinct to comply but a lot of people have the instinct if you grab me and start hurting me
I'm gonna pull away. Yes, okay your resisting now you're resisting to what I need you
I need to go harder. Well the harder I go the more you resist and you see where this is going
Next thing you know I'm beating you in the head because I don't know how to use a choke-old unfortunately because in some areas
choke-old or illegal
So again as the outsider
You want to pull them out of that you want to talk to them you want to get them to see that outside of the emotional storm that they're in both sides
Both sides are an emotional storm
Physical intervention, you know now we're talking like this is a serious step you start stepping into these scenarios
You don't you know you want to be very very careful about stepping into these one of these situations and
And even that physical escalation should be or physical
Intervention should be just with a subtle purpose of deescalating, right?
You're not walking over and you know grabbing a guy. No, hey, you know, it's like a hand on the shoulder. Hey, sir
a officer hey, you know
Tsa agent or whoever you are hey, let's just calm down
Let you want me to give you a hand getting this person under control. You know you you don't want to get these people to wear now
You become because as soon as you do that you just end the storm
You you part of the storm now. Yeah, even though you're trying not to be you're you're you're
You're entering the storm
So you got to be very very cautious about what you're doing there and
You know at what would I do in a situation where I saw someone getting you know
Be to death
You know, I'm gonna do what I just said you know now might I go a little bit further because I have a lot of experience and maybe I can handle situation and deescalated physically
Yeah, and you know you see this sometimes where something will be escalating in an innocent civilians will come and help
Unoffair secure a person so those there's ways to do it. Yeah, you just got to be very very cautious when you do those when you do that because
The the other piece of this is and again you see this on on YouTube
You don't know what happened to get to this point. You don't know who that person is who the perpetrator is right the perpetrator might look totally innocent
But you don't know any background so when you start stepping in there
You might be stepping in there to defend a person that just shot a person or a person that just you know
Got caught doing something or a person that really did resist the cops hard and do do some damage
So I don't I don't know and I'm generally gonna side with with a police officer, right?
I mean the police officer. I'm I'm respecting that they that they're doing the right thing
Yeah, and sort of step in there and start making something happen is and is not gonna generally work out in a good way
Maybe you can help them get the perpetrator under control
But yeah, to to make the assumption that because a cop is escalated to a point of violence that the cop is an outer control crazy cop
It's but not an accurate assumption
Yeah, most likely
That's the wrong assumption. Yeah, you know cops are not walking around waiting to to to beat the crap
Out of people that's not what they're doing. They don't want to do that when it happens it's
Something something has generally led up to when we see it in a case that isn't like that
That's why we see it because it's now news it's now news
So be very very careful about that again
You know most of the time you know just trying to escalate it verbally
Ask if they need any assistance ask if you can call 911 form and get more assistance for them
Ask if they need any help talk to that you know do that take that approach
If you have to physically intervene
Especially if you have some experience
You know let them know what you're doing. Do you need any help? Do you need any assistance to that type of thing?
And I'm sure we'll get some feedback from from some cops on this one and it'll be good. Yeah
Yeah, I feel like when I was back to the
Balancer situation when guys would you know
Fight would break up so in a club on a fight break breaks out is more chaotic than you know in the street when you see two guys fighting
So it's a little bit more dangerous when you jump into the fight to try to break it up because if you just jump in and
Grab the guy the guy doesn't know if you're trying to break up the fight or if you're a guy
You're just another attacker. Yeah, exactly right. So he's gonna start swinging or whatever
And that's not to mention any of that guys friends who sees you do that in the dark
You know all this you know the dark club lights whatever so
He might hate you whatever and then you know bottles can be it can be dangerous
So if you jump in there
With before you even touch the person you you're already saying
Break what I would always say is either break it up or or calm down like calm down guys break it up
Before you even touch them and they hear that so when they feel you they don't feel a punch
Got it. It's like calm down calm down and they feel you kind of it's more of a light
Given a compared to the guy who he's fighting with it's not a punch. It's not a wrestling move
It's nothing like that's like you're breaking it up and you just gave me a good reminder to if you're on the outside and you see something like this
Going on like if you're on that plane you see this this this passenger getting roughed up
You know hey hey passenger just calm down do what they're telling you to do just do what they're just
Complied with what they're doing to do you know just relax let them cuff you just relax you know you can take it you know
Definitely heard cops say this actually I heard the guy that was on Sam Harris's podcast
Like if you want to got an issue with what a cops doing to you bring it to the court
Let your lawyers handle it don't handle it right there because you're gonna lose
You're gonna lose that situation you're gonna end apart
You're gonna end up injured. It's gonna be a bad-sort scenario
So the same thing tell the tell you know if you see someone getting getting roughed up then hey
Hey man we're all watching just comply just do what they're telling you to do and
Take it up to with a lawyer later just trying to get that person to calm down because yeah that's you know
chances are
You know the police officer he's arrested thousands of people
Put his hands on thousands of people that person that's getting roughed up
They haven't they've not been arrested you know
I can guarantee you that united passenger probably never been arrested in his life
So here he is and like I said you start to pull me I'm gonna resist
I don't people don't pull me no pull me but now we've got an incident going on
So instead if someone say hey listen just listen to what they're telling you you need to just calm down
You don't want this to get any worse that type of thing yeah talk to people and get them to detach a little bit
Yeah, and obviously the united situation isn't is this linear situation works like hey
That's the passenger's fault he should have just went with him kind of thing
You know I mean this all this yeah, I honestly all I know about I don't know anything about it other than
I saw the guy getting dragged out of the plane that's what that's the only part of us all guy getting dragged out of the plane
And I saw the good Gracie yeah the Gracie breakdown about how to defend yourself when that's his equation
Yeah, and he was
He was
It's just a long story. He was there was that does apply you know if you're getting
Arrested or or taking off the plane or whatever and you choose to fight for your rights right then and there
Amen, that's a battle that you're gonna you gotta do that you know and there's consequences to that when you mean you gotta do that
It's like you ever heard the expression if you want to be a gangster you gotta do gangster stuff
Okay, it's actually gangster shit, but but but you're not you're not advising I'm
Sayin if you want that beef then you're gonna get that okay that's yeah, so
So yeah do it but like I said especially with like the tops if they're arresting you and you're like hey
You violated my rights, so I'm gonna fight you right now for my right
Yeah, if you want that beef, okay, but
It's you're gonna be more you're gonna be safer first off and more effective if you fight for your rights administratively later
You know and
So nonetheless
Kind of on attention there, but the
Oh the cop when you're helping the cops or whatever it's the same way as if you're a balancer you kind of identify yourself kind of thing just like how you're saying and
It is easy I think to and they call it availability bias, right?
It's easy to be like all these cops are beating this guy up and I see this on YouTube all the time where the cops just beat up these guys
You know, so these are bad cops or whatever, but it's like anything where when you say
It made the news because it's this bad cops
It's in your mind you know all the good cops and the legit arrest all that they're not on YouTube millions
They're not on YouTube. Yeah, exactly and even if they were
That doesn't stick in your mind. That's like if you business is usually like
Here's what I'm citing video of a police officer doing this job. Yeah, okay. Yeah, you know, I want some watch that
They want to see somebody screwing up and they forget about it. It's totally not in their mind
So yeah anything you know being screwed up or anything that just has this emotional impact on their mind
They're gonna think it's like way more common than it really is so I think it's important to kind of keep that in mind always
You know absolutely
Next question
If you have a subordinate that has an improved after talks and instruction, but can't but you can't fire them because of the union
What do you do?
I'm gonna find something that they're good at and I'm gonna get them to focus on that and
I'm gonna you know as a leader that's what you're trying to do as a leader
You got to make your team members if you got team members that you that you can't get rid of for whatever reason and
They're not quite doing what they should be doing or they're not up to speed what can they do?
What can they offer to the team when I find out what you can offer the team?
I'm gonna have you focus on that so it is
Hmm if that causes some kind of disruption because you know echo can only move
10 bricks a day and everyone else is moving 200 and
So now everyone's all mad because echo is not working and not carrying his load
Well, I'm gonna you know, well, no one I'm gonna look for a job for him where he's no one sees him care not carrying bricks
Right? Hey, instead of doing that you're gonna organize the bricks over here. You're gonna count
You're gonna count bricks because you're weak. Yeah, so you're gonna be the brick counter
So that's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna change it up and find out what they can do that's what that's what you have to do as a leader and by the way
I'm not gonna give up on them
I might not I might not invest a ton of time
But I'm gonna keep saying hey, you know if you want to move from counting bricks to moving bricks is which got to do
Here's what you got to do you got to keep working you got to keep getting stronger to work on your deadlift
Work you know get a little bit stronger so you can carry more bricks
So it's you know and that happens it doesn't just happen because of unions it happens for all different kind of you
Happens the military you can't you know you get a guy that he's in a situation where yep
He's not gonna get we're not gonna let him go. Yeah, you know we've got to keep X amount of people in
Country okay, so this guy's one of the people in country. We were not allowed to get them. Okay cool
Well, what can he do? Maybe he can count bricks. You know I haven't count be the best brick counter. We got
You might have to do a little isolation to you know, I mean you might have to isolate him a little bit
Again, because you don't want people thinking oh echoes over there, you know in the air condition
And he doesn't do doing carrying his load and so that can cause problems yeah and chocolate is just letting it happen
It happens. It happens you know, so you might have you got to figure this out
How do you isolate them a little bit? How you make sure that they're working?
You know, maybe you can only count bricks, but whatever you work in more hours, you know
We're doing some other thing to make up for your slack in the brick carrying category. Yeah
Interesting
Bottom line as a leader when you get somebody that doesn't quite do what they need to do and you can't get rid of them
Find out what they can do and take advantage of it using to the best of their ability for supporting the team
Yeah, it kind of seems like I mean given what you said that I mean
This might dumb it down too much, but it's
A situation where you are making the best of it right exactly and
What I found in life when you make the best of something you don't get plagued with all because it let's say the two scenarios
One you're making the best of it to you're not so when you're not it's gonna be burning
Burning you every day. It goes only moving 10 brick. That's gonna bother me every day. Doesn't have to by the way
You're still gonna move this amount of bricks. We're gonna get the same amount of work done 10 bricks
100 bricks 200 bricks whatever, but meanwhile you're getting tortured all day because you that the fact that that was not moving as many bricks are
Isn't there condition from whatever that's bothering me every single day
But if you understand that we're making the best of this situation that's not gonna bother you know we're making the best of it
It's the best situation very true
Better attitude, you know make the best of the stitch
Next question
ego is the enemy. Can you take that too far?
I can joke about myself all day and be okay
But also I don't want coworkers not to take me seriously
So that's actually kind of two questions. It's talking about ego and then talking about joking around right?
Those are two different things a little bit like self-deprecating. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, and so
can you
Can you be too humble and
Put your ego in so much check that it hurts you. Yes, actually you can't you know
Hey echo how's it going? I'm in charge
I'm really horrible at this. I just don't know what I'm doing right? That's not good
You know it's like I said to the Marine Lieutenant right?
Am I telling them to go into check in and say hey guys?
I you know, I just don't I just got here just got out of the basic school. I don't know anything really
Do you want to fall that guy? No, that's what I'm talking about
So so can you be overly humble? Yes, I like I said it's okay to admit that you don't know everything
But that doesn't mean don't be well prepared
That doesn't mean don't be confident that you can figure things out
That doesn't mean you can't ask good questions right? It doesn't mean that you don't report in
without knowing
The no-manclature and the fundamentals right that's gonna you know
I ain't chocolate just checked in but he knows what our mission's been he knows what our mission statement is
He knows how our basic process is he already looked at all that he knows everyone's name. Yeah. I'm prepared
I'm prepared
So that's what you want to be that's not saying I have no idea what I'm doing right now
I just got here no
No, that's not what we're talking about so don't be overly humble
most people
The reason I talk about the other one of be humble all the time is because most people tend towards
Letting the video be inflated. That's what most people tend towards so I tend to talk more about hey keep your ego in check when you were
Checking because most people are so scared of looking bad. They say well, I know how to do this
Never seen it before I know how to do that never seen it before you're gonna look stupid. Hey guys
Hey, I've been putting charge in this I know you guys been doing it for a while
Looking forward to learning from you and how you execute it and and driving forward and keeping kicking ass in this mission
Does anyone get mad at that no it that's a lot different than hey guys. I have no idea what's happening
That's too much. Yeah, so don't go there
Be humble but not not passive put your ego in check, but don't turn into a baby word of the day
The second part of this is question about joking around too much and that's you know that's different from too much ego and
Absolutely you can joke around too much now of course and we've talked about this a good team
And a good leader they're having fun they're having fun with everything that you're doing and I always had fun
I was at fun. I still have fun all the time. I'm having fun
But if all you do is joke around all the time
Then when it comes time for the jokes to be over people won't take you seriously so that will be problematic you know I had a rule
That was no joking on the radios right so if you were on a radio you weren't allowed to take me jokes
No joking on the radio and what's cool about the cuz you know and tasking a bruiser when I was a
Patoon commander when I was a system to come in her we had fun all the time
We laughed we joked we had a blast with everything we did no joking on the radio
You see what I'm saying that was a law no joking on the radio and what was good about it
Was as I think back to that what that translated to was we're not joking around in the field and
That expanded like when we're briefing we're not joking around it was a very clear distinction
Of course did people have we did things happen out in the fields and I was like oh my god
This is hilarious of course that happened but the general 99% of the time 95% of the time was hey
We're in the field we're working we are serious. That's the priority
Hmm, did we have fun in the field? Yes did I laugh in the field? Yes, but the priority and this norm was
We are going we are serious and we are that's the priority so
Don't joke so much that you
Don't get taken seriously one time I was with a senior ranking officer a flag officer meeting an officer with stars
And we went to go brief I wasn't attached this unit, but they went to go brief this unit
Or we went to go receive a brief from a unit and in the brief in a PowerPoint slide
These guys hadn't put a slide in that was an inappropriate slide and it was a crude joke
And it was really funny. I thought it was really funny, you know
I was like oh that's pretty funny that these guys did that you guys saw the slide they had it up there
And it was completely inappropriate and and and vulgar, right? That's what it was
They didn't know this general at all and he was a very straight-laced guy and didn't
Appreciate that kind of humor and they they had like the welcome side the next slide that came up was this inappropriate vulgar slide
What was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was inappropriate
I'll leave it at that and
And you know it was like there was a chuckle in the room
And at the same time there was nothing but silence in the room
And you could feel the discomfort and and since I like I said I thought it was funny and I knew it wasn't gonna go over well as
As soon as I saw this oh
That's is not good and the reason I'm telling this big long story is because I have another rule
Don't put jokes into your slides in PowerPoint
No jokes because you can you can articulate the joke because you can feel the room out
You can see what's going on you can get it get a taste you can get a feel for them if you if you walk in if they would have
Had a chance if I could have said freeze the first slides up you even you've met the general here for for five minutes
Do you want to remove that slide?
They'd be like oh absolutely let's get it out of that because they could see that he was a serious guy and not you know
One to be that that wants to be seen that kind of thing it didn't take it wasn't hard it was you pretty easy book to read
But you don't have that opportunity there was no hold on we're gonna delete this slide
No there it was boom
Welcome it was though it was after the slide of you know this is where we are it was the welcome slide
And I said oh
So no joking on the radio no joking on your slides keep your slides clean and and the the risk benefit you tell a good joke
Hey, that's great you get you know two credits right if your joke is bad and considered inappropriate
It's negative 39 so it's not worth it. Yeah, it's not worth it. Yeah, and again. I'm all about you know
You you want to have fun when you're briefing you want people to be entertained and have fun
But you don't want to have inappropriate stuff. No. Yeah, so that's that for both these
For both these things am I joking too much or I'm maybe in two series and my you know is my ego too big or am I being too humble
You it's a balance it's a dichotomy leadership and you got to find the right spot in the middle and you got to check yourself and you got to
You know if your team is joking when they shouldn't be joking guess what you're leading them the wrong direction
If your team is somber and doesn't have any spirit
You're not having good enough time so you got to find the balance there same thing with ego, you know
or people talking with you and communicating with you and being open with you
And telling you when they disagree with things or is no one talking to you because if that's the case
Your ego is so big that they don't want to talk you
So find the dichotomy leadership find the balance between those two
That's a good one if they're if they're not talking to you. Yeah, because you know how it at work
You're talking with your friends, you know, and then somebody comes that person comes to it
You're like oh, you know for whatever reason you're not necessarily talking about them or nothing but they come in
You got to stop your conversation, you know, yeah, that's like a little indicator, you know
If you roll up to see people across the room talking and you're like hey that looks like a cool conversation or whatever
Or I'm gonna go say hi to pop whatever and you go and they stop talking and they stop like laughing
They just stop talking and they give you like small talk or whatever
That's that's an indicator. Yeah, yeah, it's an indicator or a tribute actually either one of those two
If people are having a good time and you walk into they stop laughing oh, so he said okay
And if you walk in and they're having a conversation and they don't they just you know don't want to talk to you
You're they're probably they probably they probably don't like your big ego that's slapping them in the face
Put your ego and check
We got time for one more
One more juggle do you ever get worn down by everything you're trying to do and the things going wrong and things not working and having to work so hard only to come up short
What do you do then
Of course
Me of course of course
I get worn down
Of course I get frustrated with stuff of course things don't always go my way and of course
I come up short sometimes
Of course
But what do I do when those things happen?
I keep going
It's
It's really that simple. I put one foot in front of the other. I move forward another inch another centimeter
I
Right one more sentence. I I am place one more brick on the wall like gut through one more workout
Step out onto the mat one more time
Because
Because worn down
Isn't beaten
And frustration is not going to kill me
And
The things that don't go my way
They they just turn into targets that I'm going to attack harder
And when I do come up short
Okay, because I just learned one more thing that's gonna get me over the top
So
At those moments at those low points those times when it seems
That defeat
Is starting to get the upper hand you don't need some grand plan
And you don't need a pep talk and you don't need a miracle
You
Just need
to keep going
Keep going just keep going and don't stop regardless of what you are hit with
Because if you don't stop yourself
The
Nothing else can and nothing else will
And I think that's all I've got for tonight
So
Echo
One of you go ahead and talk about how we can
Support this podcast if we want to if we want to and support yourself if we want to which we do by the way
So talk about on it on it supplements
Physical and mental by the way, so I think you know I don't know if we failed to mention this or we just been mentioning it a little bit less
Which is
Alpha brain
We haven't talked about I feel like we haven't talked about Alpha brain that much recently been taking it by the way
But not talking about it
This is good, okay, so it's a new to they call it new tropic or new tropic something
True picks. I'm like that helps your brain nutrients to your brain boom directly
So two forms
The instant it's like powder. You mix it up with your gatorid. Yeah, whatever
No, you don't need to mix with gatorid
It doesn't you you can mix it on its own right there's two flavors
But yeah, there's peach and then there's natural spice and
The two flavors
Taste exactly like what they sound what they're named
Not peach tastes like peach yeah and natural spice
All natural spice kick too, but it's also it's got a little peach, but it's got a little natural spice right
Was
I didn't know those two flavors. Yeah, I have both
That's what what is this one this one is all this one is natural spice that's natural spice yeah
They get boom, but they have they they they taste sweet right so
You don't need to mix it with gatorid and you shouldn't be having gatorid anyways because it's just a bunch of sugar
Right in water even at a punch, but we'll say some
So me electrolytes in nonetheless mix it with whatever you want man
Or just pour it into your mouth. It's powder. That's the thing compared to the capsules. Yep
Whatever you like you know the powder one is called the instant so it goes to your brain quick quicker
That's just an assumption
Nonetheless here. This is what it does which is cool. So you know how like you know you're talking to somebody and you blank out on something like somebody's name
No, but
Yeah, yeah
You gave me a word yeah, I don't think that's how come before wait oh before we were
We were recording live
I didn't yes acquaintance. I didn't have enough alpha brain. No, that was before we were recording anything
No, all right well there it is either way. That's what it does you need more alpha brain now. No, I think you do
I think I'm right because I took two of these and I think that that I'm correct nonetheless doesn't even matter
Because what it does is it makes you do that like way like actually you don't even do it and I don't I mean
Maybe that's a deficient something about some kind of deficiency when that happens you know when they call brain fart
I'm in a brain fart you know you don't get brains of constant
It's like gas-ex for your brain essentially you know how like gas-ex you know what that does right
So you don't you don't do that you don't have to think of words anymore. They just calm boom for real
Now I don't want I kind of don't want to bring this up but I will anyways because I don't want to give people bias
What I don't you can tell me what cognitive bias says
But if you heard people like your brother Jade who says when he takes alpha brain his dreams get all crazy
So that's another thing that I and I've I've seen I've talked to other people that that get more vivid dreams
Right with the alpha brain. Yeah, so that's another thing just to be aware of yeah
Now just I want I don't want to what kind of cognitive bias is that that's not a club of availability bias because I
Said it now you're waiting for it and so now you have a vivid dream you think it's the alpha brain. That's all right, right? That's like that's a placebo effect
Yeah, I guess but you're attributing it to something you're tripping it down for brain. Oh, yeah
So anyway that is a bias you may notice that
Your dreams become more vivid. I don't notice it
But I've heard some people say I heard Joe Rogan talking about yeah
I heard a bunch and Jade is one of those Jay that's she said it before I even heard anything well say he's like all that's like a good thing
He did it wasn't a complaint do that's the thing lucid dream
But yeah, I like I don't have lucid dreams. I have savage nightmares
What I have and I wake up in a pool of sweat and it just to get some an alpha brain fueled savage nightmare
Yeah, don't need that. We're not gonna visit that one hopefully that doesn't happen to you
But the benefit that I am going to claim and this and it's proven to by the way in a double blind placebo
Test official alpha brain helps with your like recall like your memory, you know that stuff
Which that's essentially what it is when you think about it when you forget little that one word boom
That recall boom boom boom it's just firing. That's how off a brain
So yeah, if you're about to do something where you got to think and talk a lot which is
everything get on that alpha brain then you'd be glad you did I I took
What I used to do a lot so before before I knew how to switch to manual mode regardless
I would take a pre workout and alpha brain and
It helped was money. Yeah, I actually got one of my better workouts on that little formula
So I just kept doing it, but you know how you do something over and over again
Whether it's physiologically or otherwise you just you tend to lose that
Yeah, it's like if you take caffeine all the time. Yeah, yes, yeah in a way
All the same thing. I say alpha brain so I can take it all the time right take it on the regular yeah
Be in the blood. Yeah, so my more at less that to do with like the the directive effect of alpha brain and my memory and recall
It was more about the kind of workout I got you know
So placebo by the way, it's for maybe maybe not though that's the thing or maybe I was just thinking of more cool stuff
You know, so it's more enjoyable workout could have been that perhaps maybe maybe not
Not the last mistake to the evidence and the proof you'll recall stuff better
Remember memorize things better
Good all day everyday
Also I got that strong bone remember a few weeks back. Oh, yeah, what does it strong both now?
You're on that yeah, the facts strong to him
Those things he's a thing to you read the thing so calcium is that's the that's the the flagship
The element mineral element whatever
Calcium that's the one that gets all the credit for your bones
It's like or you know the strong team is like the stepchild like is for his recognition
But strong team is super important you lose that you know when you get old in whatever, but that's what that's a strong
Bone is yeah, you think strong team. Yeah, you think it's strong bone makes your bones strong
Which I think that's on purpose, dude. It's like a little plan words you think so
Real no
How are you smart like that anyway take that strong ball I did it cuz as you know I got by subsidiary
10 to no mobile I set ripped off my bone
So if I'm still lift I still do curls whatever I said it
I don't need that thing ripping off. I don't need 10 the night is I don't need problems. I don't need issues
Got on that strong bone also I take krill oil jocke. Do you take krill oil affirmative? I think you've been taking krill oil
longer than I have again and when I say I think it means I know long time even though I've been hearing about great things about krill oil
From day one so anyway on the krill oil that helps with joints
It gives you this feel air I said this before I will say it again it gives you this feeling where
Then this physically it's not emotionally
Feeling emotional just FYI yeah
No feeling though if I click your finger you're gonna feel that true so this is yeah, and not all good
You feel like like if you're sitting down for a long time and then you stand up. Yeah, well you talk about it when I stand
What I wrote when I stand up well you're on krill oil so you this applies to you when we stand up if Greg train was here
Like we were like a few weeks ago if Greg train was like he wasn't on the krill oil
We all stand up after the same amount of time two hours
Ish
He will be compelled to be like oh
Make that sound not crazy, but he'll be compelled to make that sound whether he makes it or not he's gonna feel like making it me
I won't you you won't krill oil makes your joints
Young again for lack of a better turn
Anyway, it helps though. Yes, but if you in all seriousness if you are like lifting weights going hard
Yeah, take it all. Yeah, take the krill oil. It'll I mean to where would one get it do that on it dot com if you want
10% off you go on it dot com slash jacco
It's the best krill oil too. That's the thing you can get
Lane krill oil anywhere
Maybe not anywhere, but in other places we'll say but the real deal that good stuff is on it
You don't want to get lame krill oil from name krill. Yeah, you want the hard core of the
It's true. Do you know how like um like us i e berries? Yeah, you know like you know you
You can get
junk us i e like the reject us i and paid like cheaper actually this you like krill oil is actually super good price anyway and you get 10% off from on
slash jacco that's the 10% off for nonetheless back to that say berries
You can get the junk kind and try to taste junk us i e berries and then taste good us i e berries
But the difference is like you can tell the difference big time
It's like night and day same thing with the krill oil take the good on man forget the lame one
It's just my opinion anyway good another good way to support podcast
Amazon click through all you do before you do any of your Amazon shopping
Click through the website jacco's podcast.com
I got a little hint
from
Somebody in the field
That said hey when you tell people to do Amazon click through what you should tell them is to tell their
Significant other to click through
For instance in my case my wife buys more things on Amazon than i do i'm in the game
I'm supporting the podcast sure but
What if my wife doesn't know about the click through right she needs to get in the game yeah
Don't support right there don't just you do it
Get your family get your wife get your your husband
Right they're not in the game get him in the game
Yeah, uh
There's a lot of times yeah a lot of times the other spouse is buying the stuff on Amazon yeah, and they don't know how to support
Right they don't know about that website or they're just less compelled or they forgot yeah, and you don't really technically
You don't know if they're forgotten or not, you know
If you're clever
heard this from Sam Harris
I knew this already, I'm be honest, but I heard it to reinforce it or some people they will click through
And before they do shopping they get that little URL boom save it to favorite save it to to boy call it bookmarks
But that's on the top so a moment it's there. It's it's in the front of your head now
It's a good way to support small action takes what three seconds if that if that yeah and huge support
It's like huge reinforcement
Enforcement actually that's all strong supported it is small action bigger reaction
Yeah, like sodium when you throw it in water anyway
Subscribe to the podcast if you want
iTunes could now keep sure good
Good play, but that's the best example you can think of really well
You're not interested in the house, but you said it we're good over here. Yeah, I can't think of that one
Subscribe if you want iTunes stitch your google play all these podcasting
Providing platforms and you know you'll get you on the list. You know you click on my podcast boom
Automatic it'll be there the new and updated every week so you can just click play you don't got to do the search anymore
You know when you do that you go on there and you hey, let me see this podcast you got to search podcast
You got to type in in on your phone
Actually not that big with deal, but it would be even less of a big deal if you subscribe
You just click on my podcast boom updated automatically right there
So subscribe to the podcast that's a good way to support leave a review if you're in the mood
Chocolate said something extra dope you're like hey like that leave a review feel free
Like no, I don't want what you call that
Muzzle like what you put on the dogs to stop
Yeah, yeah
We're not trying a muzzle anybody I was thinking about a muzzle over here for some of the
See and it's good that you exercise a no muzzle policy and I think that policy should extend to anyone who's listening
And want to support this podcast. That's what I think and apparently that's what you think to and I like that obviously
Yeah, so subscribe also subscribe to YouTube. Yeah, we have YouTube channel. I know I say it every week
I'm gonna say it again. I'm saying this week. We have YouTube channel
Video version of this podcast is on the YouTube channel which is cool obvious right but with strong recommendations from jockel from others
online
They recommended that you cut out little excerpts put them on YouTube even make a playlist which I did and did
I did all of that stuff so there's excerpts on there if you want to listen to three minutes of jockel opinion on what gym what home gym what what
equipment makes a good home gym
You want to listen to that boom it's available right there how should I approach college
Boom jockels advice right there
So these X I think they're actually the more I kind of look at them and stuff. I think this is a valuable situation
You can share them easy and people way more likely to listen to little excerpts and the whole thing
If you're trying to get one you know element of the podcast
So yeah YouTube subscribe to that good way to support good way to support
Also jockels the store called jockels store if
You want to wear T shirts and represent we got some new ones we got a new one on there
But regardless of new ones old ones whichever just go in there see if you like one
Get one good way to support and boom T shirt also hoodies rash guards
Which are not my words other people's words they're pretty dope
So you know if you're into activity that you like range of motion and you want to represent and you want to support get a rash guard
Those are good. I did them for you just to
Or it's only but bad if yeah if you if you if you you know do crossfit
Metcons whatnot cycling
Run marathons
Listing all the things that people send me pictures of them doing in their rash guards
So that's what I'm going down this list other stuff if you do all that perfect for that do
Very perfect
Can something be very perfect it's either perfect or not right?
Yeah, I think yeah either way this women stuff on there some patches velcro
Regulation size and color
um who it is as well also
Maybe the travel mugs are on there maybe not none the last I'll talk more about the travel mugs later next time
Also
Oh jocco store calm I think I said that but you know there it is a reminder
Jocco store calm is the website
Okay good way to support and support yourself
Psychological warfare what's psychological warfare is I know said it before I'm said again
Psychological warfare is an album with tracks not music tracks
Jocco tracks
And if you are
You know
I'm starting to not like the word self improvement
I already don't like that word right yeah kind of like I'm starting to yeah
You know, it's kind of like it. Yeah, and I'm to the point I'm like midway through not liking it
You know the phases is like don't pull me here something like okay that's going acceptable mid phases like that's cool
But I don't like how it sounds when I said and then the last phase is you don't you just don't want to hear it
I mean mid phase so but I'm gonna use it, you know for just for the greater good if you're on a self improvement
path
Journey
Journey's another one of those words that
You know you're waking up early you're doing workouts now consistently your consistently
consistently eating good
What about studying and reading and getting smarter to yeah those studying reading
um
You know writing even anything creative you know
Man when you
And that's the thing that jams people up when they're like hey, I should do this. I should write my ebook or I should
I should do a journal every day or whatever, you know, and they'll do it one day and then they just won't do it anymore
You know that's the thing
So anyway you've been regardless of what you're doing these tracks like a lot of your part
These tracks will help you through this at times of weakness
If you're trying to get up in the morning and it's that day, you know you had a long night and a hard workout that morning
That you're looking forward to or not looking forward to and you're like you know what I'm gonna just gonna snooze or I'm gonna skip the workout
You listen to a certain one or two or three of these tracks
It's jacquon who gets you through that moment of weakness and you will workout you will
Wake up early
100% probability with very few if any
exceptions also
On Amazon the while you're clicking through you can get some jacquoite which has some pretty good effects
I just pulled a couple of views out
This one here says drinking jacquo's white tea has had the following effects on my life
Getting after it up 55%
Extreme ownership up 92% and also by the way cruising
Up 108% so that's important
Also deadlift went from 325 to 555
20 pullups instead of sets of five
Solid that's good improvement. I don't think anyone would brush that one in a row instead of instead of
It's at a 5
There's another person that drank the tea and I thought that this was important because it could happen other people
Okay, so this person bought some
Jacquoite tea for myself and my next workout was so aggressive
I got a strongly worded letter from the UN to see some hostilities so
I don't like seeing UN involvement on our workouts, but if you're not careful it might happen
And also there's another person I haven't talked about front squatting
But you know one person that has been drinking jacquoite is now front squatting about
So again just jacquoite no big deal
Double triple quadruple plasibo ultimate tested
flawless
Numbers yeah, so yeah jacquoite man tastes good and it is good
Also right now way of the warrior kid it's out
We've been waiting for it. I've been waiting for it boom. Thanks everyone for picking it up getting a copy if you haven't gotten it yet
Get it you know what you probably don't you probably wonder if you need it maybe think you don't need it
So
Little extra little extra for you now this is
Young Mark he couldn't do any pullups
He couldn't do any pullups
He's in fifth grade couldn't do any falls get made fun of people are laughing at him because he can't do any
Pullups his uncle Uncle Jake
He stays with him for the summer uncle jakes and the sealed teams uncle Jake
Get some on the workout program what you and I are
Kind of a little refer to as the program
Get some on the program and
It's been a few weeks now an uncle Jake realizes that mark he's been doing negatives and he's been doing assisted pullups
And he's been doing the pyramids, but just hanging on the bar doing all those things getting ready and Uncle Jake realizes now
He's ready to do his first pull-up. So he says to him you know, okay, you're gonna get on you're gonna do your first pull-up today
You'll go to the back to the book
There you go
He said get it up
Get on the bar
Then here's young mark. I was filled with fear every time I had tried in the past no matter how hard
I pulled I could never get my chin over the bar
Now with Uncle Jake standing right here after all the work he has done with me
I just didn't think I'd be able to do it
I stood there looking up at the bar
well
What are you waiting for?
Sit Uncle Jake. I slowly stepped up on the box and reached up for the bar the bar was cool in my hands
And I noticed something that I hadn't thought about my grip in the past my grip always felt like it was gonna slip off the bar my grip felt different now
It felt strong
I concentrated and then after taking a big breath I pulled and I went up and
And up and up and up and soon my chin cleared the top of the bar. Yes, I had done it
I let myself down slowly and dropped off the bar. I looked at my uncle. He had a big smile on his face a big smile
He was happy and I was even happier if felt so good
I looked at Uncle Jake and yelled yeah
As I curl both my fist towards my shoulder like I'd seen weight lifters do in magazines
And I could actually tell for the first time in my life
I was starting to get some muscles nothing huge but they were certainly there muscle man mark I shouted as proud as I could be
Then I saw Uncle Jake smile disappear
Hold on there muscle man
Said Uncle Jake. I didn't know what was wrong but something was I think it's a bit early for a celebration
Early I just did the first pull-up of my life. I think it's the perfect time for a celebration
I told Uncle Jake
That's a problem
Uncle Jake said a problem. Why is a pull-up a problem?
Not the pull-up mark the celebration
It is way too early for celebrating
But I just did my first pull-up ever
But your goal isn't one pull-up
Your goal is ten pull-ups you did one
Sure you have a reason to be happy one pull-up is better than zero
But it's a long way from ten
No matter what you're doing in life you can't take your eyes off the long-term goal especially to celebrate
You can assess you can try and figure out some lessons learned
From what you did right and what you did wrong you can even do a little celebrating for the small
victories
But don't go overboard
You need to keep your head in the game so come over here give me a high five and then get back over there and start doing more work on the pull-up bar
This is only the beginning
I walked over to Uncle Jake who brought his hand up in the air
I slapped it hard and he said solid work
Now get back over there and get after it
Yes, sir, I told him
Just a little another little lesson from Uncle Jake you can't get
Carke when you make the little cheap minge got to keep your eye on the ball so that's it
Check out that book order it way the warrior kid
It's a kids book that's what they're telling me
I think we all learn a little something from it. I know I learned from writing it
You can also pre-a-boarder a book called Discipline equals freedom field manual
And it's we're dilinating it right now. It's gonna come out October 17th
It isn't a workout book
It isn't a philosophy book. It isn't a photography book. It isn't a diet book
It's got all those things in there, but how do you categorize it?
Where are you gonna put where you gonna put it in the bookstore? Where's it gonna be? Where's it gonna be on Amazon?
You know what it's gonna be?
It's gonna be in the get after it category and you know what it's gonna be only book in there. So you can order that one
You can also order extreme ownership of course if you want to lead and win
You can get that book for you and your team
If you need some leadership training live you can contact our company echelon front echelon front is a leadership and management consulting business
We teach your company to lead
With the same principles of leadership that we learned in combat. So if you want to get us in the game with you email info at echelonfront.com
We have the master
002 coming up at the Marriott Grand Marquis May 4th and 5th
Leadership strategy tactics if you don't make that one guess what that's okay Texas
July 13th and 14th at the Omni Barton Creek resort and spa
I'm gonna tell you right up straight up don't come for the spa and I'm gonna see the spa
If you can't make the one in Texas San Diego September 14th and 15
Follow on operation
We've been there once we'll come back again come get your leadership game on
Improve yourself
As a leader and as a person we'll see you at one of those monsters look forward to it when we're not at the monsters we can be found
on the interwebs
on Twitter
on Instagram
And we gonna be relaxing on that face
That face he book
Wow
Echo is at echel Charles and I am at jacquilink
Thanks to everybody for listening and for supporting and for asking these questions and for helping us do what we do
to the military personnel overseas
All of you
Our deepest thanks and appreciation for your service and sacrifice stay safe
The best way to stay safe is to stay aggressive
To the police firefighters EMTs first responders
Thanks for staying sharp training hard and standing watch for us here at home
And to everybody listening
Life isn't easy
And it's not supposed to be
Sure there's victories and there's triumphs but there's also losses and setbacks
But those losses and setbacks only win if you let them
So don't let them
Don't let them win no matter what happens
Keep going
Keep getting after it
So until next time
This is echo and jacquil
Out